/
C++ Programming
Introduction to computer programming, software engineering
principles, structured program design and implementation, using
the C++ programming language; students will become familiar
with common commands for managing the file system and
constructing programs in the Linux operating system.
/
Object-Oriented Design Using C++
Further development of student problem solving and
programming skills beyond CS-1210 by increased exposure to
the C++ language features including pointers, object-oriented
language contructs and design principles, memory management
mechanisms, exception handling, event-driven programming,
and graphical user interfaces (GUI). 
/
Data Structures Using Java
Introduction to the proper use of data structures for
developing efficient software; data structures include stacks,
queues, priority queues, hash tables, trees, and graphs.
Students will develop skill in object-oriented design and the Java
programming language. 
/
Programming Language Survey
Systematic study of the principles, concepts, and mechanisms
of computer programming languages: their syntax, semantics,
and pragmatics; the processing and interpretation of computer
programs; programming paradigms; and language design.
Illustrative examples will be selected and programming exercises
will be assigned from a variety of programming languge
paradigms.
/
Web Applications
Introduction to the design and implementation of web-based
applications. Technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Javascript,
JQuery, PHP, Java Servlets, XML, and MySQL are explored.
Multiple design projects required.
/
Operating Systems
A state-of-the-art survey of operating system principles. Covers
fundamental technology and contemporary design issues such as
threads, real-time systems, multiprocessor scheduling, distributed
systems, and security. Course content is developed through
lectures, student research of the relevant literature, presentations,
and programming projects using both C++ and Java. 
/
Foundations of Computer Security
Introduction to computer security, including basic concepts,
security policy, access control, authentication and key control,
and cryptography
/
Algorithms
Introduction to classical algorithms that have broad application
in solving computer science problems; topics include analysis of
algorithms, advanced data structures, graph algorithms, numerical
methods, and NP-completeness. 
/
Compiler Theory and Practice
Introduction to the foundational technology of modern
compilers, with emphasis on underlying theory and practical
techniques for implementing a compiler by applying objectoriented and appropriate data structures. 
/
Database Organization and Design
Introduction to the analysis, design, and implementation of
relational databases and the Structured Query Language (SQL);
topics include data modeling techniques, data model to logical
schema conversion techniques, relational algebra, SQL, database
file organizations, query evaluation, transaction management, and
client-server application architectures. 
/
Software Engineering I
The capstone design experience for computer science majors.
Introduction to software engineering principles focusing on
requirement development, detailed design, project scheduling and
management, quality assurance, and testing. 
/
Software Engineering II
Student teams will complete the implementation, testing, and release of their
capstone project, submit regular progress reports, prepare a final
report, and make a formal project presentation. 
/
Digital Logic Design
Introduction to digital logic design, number systems,
Boolean algebra, Karnaugh maps, computer simulation tools,
combinational network design, flip flops, counters, state machines,
and sequential networks. 
/
Computer Architecture
Introduction to computer architecture with an emphasis on
hardware, RISC vs. CISC, pipeline and vector processing, I/O,
and memory hierarchy including caches. 
/
Computer Networks
This course is an introduction to computer networking. The
course will present the layered network architecture of the internet
and examine the services and functions that each layer performs.
The wellknown protocols of each layer will be explored in-depth
through written homework, programming assignments, and
packet-capture labs (using Wireshark, for example). Important
fundamental networking topics will be emphasized such as
packet switching, addressing, performance measurement, reliable
data transfer, and routing.
/
Professional Ethics
Introduction to the theories of morality and philosophical issues
of determining what is true and what is good. Applications are
made to professional conduct, engineer-client relations, and
product liability. Legal problems and the engineering code of
ethics are discussed from a biblical perspective.
/
Senior Seminar
Required weekly meeting of senior engineering and computer
science majors to discuss the transition into the professional
work environment.
/
Discrete Math and Probability Principles for Computer Science
An introduction to mathematical foundations of computer
science, including propositional and predicate calculus, methods
of proof, sets and relations, recurrences, program correctness
and proofs, probability models, random variables, probability
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing. 
/
Computer Graphics
Introduction to three-dimensional computer graphics and
computer game content creation and programming. Topics
include geometric modeling and common game engine
capabilities; techniques for enhancing realism such as local
lighting effects, texture, transparency, and physical modeling; and
common computations in the rendering pipeline such as model
transformations, clipping and culling, shading, rasterization and
collision detection
/
Linux Systems Programming
A study of the Linux operating system with special emphasis
given to developing low-level programming skills in C and
assembly language for the purpose of understanding Linux’s
separation of user- and kernel-space features, system code,
and how to develop kernel modules. In addition to the emphasis
on low-level programming, students will study various system
administration skills, scripting languages, administration
and programming tools, and gain a better understanding of
capabilities and limitations of the Linux operating systems (O/S). 
/
Cyber Operations
This course covers cyber operations and the best practices
for securing a technology infrastructure. Topics covered include
offensive cyber operations, cyber-related legal precedents and
regulations, wired and wireless network security, intrusion
detection and prevention systems, system hardening, and defense
in-depth. 
/
The Bible and the Gospel
An introductory course on the nature of the Bible, helpful tools
for biblical interpretation, biblical practices that engender growing
in spiritual maturity, and the Gospel-sharing task of all believers.
Topics of emphasis include the content and appeal of the Gospel,
the Holy Spirit’s role in inspiring the Bible and in applying the Bible
to the believer’s life, gaining a valid interpretation of the author’s
textual meaning, and the role of the local church in spiritual
growth.
/
Old Testament Literature
Survey of the entire Old Testament, giving special attention to
authorship, historical background, and the theme of each book
with attention to literary genre. This study traces the history of
the Hebrew nation from its origin to the time of Jesus Christ. 
/
Composition
Designed to assist the student in developing the skills
necessary to meet the demands of typical writing situations,
both academic and professional. The course will introduce the
student to the common expository writing methods of description,
narration, analysis, persuasion, and research presentation. 
/
Calculus I
First course of a two-course sequence covering basic concepts
of analytic geometry and single variable calculus. Includes limits
and single variable calculus. Includes limits and derivatives
of algebraic and transcendental functions, applications of the
derivative, single variable integration, including the Fundamental
Theorem of Calculus and integration by substitution, and
applications of integration, including solving differential equations
and finding volumes of revolution.
/
Calculus II
The second course of a two-course sequence covering the
basic concepts of analytic geometry and single variable calculus.
Includes techniques of integration such as integration by parts,
trigonometric substitution and partial fractions, improper integrals
and L’Hopital’s rule, sequences, series, expansion of functions into
Taylor and power series, conic sections, plane curves, calculus
of parametric equations and polar coordinates, vectors and
geometry in three-space, vector-valued functions and curvature.
/
General Physics I
Basic concepts of mechanics using calculus. This is the
first of a three-course sequence intended for students in the
physical sciences and engineering programs. Topics include
linear and rotational motion in three dimensions, oscillatory
motion, gravitation, fluid mechanics, and basic concepts of wave
motion. 
/
Physical Activity and Healthy Living
Study of the role of physical activity in the Christian life from
a scriptural, physiological, and psycho-sociological perspective.
Emphasis is placed upon developing and continuing active,
healthy, Christian life practices. 
/
New Testament Literature
Survey of the entire New Testament, including the historical
background of the Inter-Testamental period, giving special
attention to main events, the authorship and content of each
book with attention to literary genre, and the unfolding of God’s
redemptive purpose through the Lord Jesus Christ.
/
Theology I
An introductory reflection on the theological task, the doctrines
of the triune God, creation and humanity, revelation, and sin
by means of a conversation between the Bible and classic and
contemporary theological literature. This theological reflection will
be brought to bear on contemporary challenges. 
/
Cyber Operations
This course covers cyber operations and the best practices
for securing a technology infrastructure. Topics covered include
offensive cyber operations, cyber-related legal precedents and
regulations, wired and wireless network security, intrusion
detection and prevention systems, system hardening, and defense
in-depth. 
/
Fundamentals of Speech
Public speaking and strong verbal communication skills are
critical components of many careers. Students learn to inform
others about ideas, advocate for a position, work in groups
and teams, listen and critique messages, and practice conflict
resolution.
/
General Physics II
Basic concepts of electricity and magnetism, light, and optics
using calculus. This is the second of a three-course sequence
intended for students in the physical sciences and engineering
programs. Topics include electricity, magnetism, Maxwell’s
equations, DC and AC circuits, geometrical and physical
optics.
/
Advanced Digital Logic Design
Advanced treatment of digital logical design techniques and
practices with emphasis on rapid electronic prototyping and
effective use of advanced computer-aided design tools; schematic,
textual, and VHDL design entry; arithmetic circuits, advanced
finite-state machines, and advanced controller implementations.
Three lecture hours per week with periodic integrated laboratory;
multiple projects and laboratory experiences including a class
design contest usually involving a robot.
/
Theology II
An introductory reflection on the theological task, the doctrines
of Christ, salvation, the Holy Spirit, the Church, and last things
by means of a conversation between the Bible and classic and
contemporary theological literature. This theological reflection
will be brought to bear on contemporary challenges with a focus
on developing the students’ practice of theological thinking. 
/
SoftWare Security
A detailed look at issues involved in providing secure software
systems. Students will study principles and practices of software
development that result in software that is robust and secure from
attack. Students will learn techniques for analyzing software to
determine whether it contains weaknesses that are vulnerable
to exploitation. Students will also explore reverse engineering
of software to understand the design of an existing software
component to determine its security and whether it could contain
malware. 
/
Politics and American Culture
This course serves as an introductory study of America’s
constitution and political institutions, with emphases on political
participation, political culture, and public policy.
/
Introduction to the Humanities
Historical study of the relationship of music, art, and literature to
the dominant cultural, religious, and philosophical trends and their
relationship to Christian theism.
/
United States History I
Survey and analysis of the development of the United States
from the colonial period through Reconstruction. The course
examines ethnic, social, military, political, economic, and
ideological themes in order to achieve a broad understanding of
American civilization to 1877. Attention is given to the dominant
Christian influences that have tended to shape our cultural, social,
and political development.
/
Parallel Computing
Introduction to the exploitation of parallelism to solve
computational intensive problems; emphasis is placed on both the
message passing (using MPI) and the shared memory paradigms;
projects are required using both paradigms. 
/
Professional Ethics
Introduction to the theories of morality and philosophical issues
of determining what is true and what is good. Applications are
made to professional conduct, engineer-client relations, and
product liability. Legal problems and the engineering code of
ethics are discussed from a biblical perspective.
/
Senior Seminar
Required weekly meeting of senior engineering and computer
science majors to discuss the transition into the professional
work environment.
/
Principles of Biology
Emphasizes basic life processes and the principles by
which these processes operate at the ecological, organismic,
and cellular levels of organization with emphasis on human
responsibility toward life at all levels. 
/
Literary Analysis
Introductory study of contextual analysis. This course is
primarily intended for adolescent and young adult integrated
language arts and English majors as preparation for upper-division
literature courses. 
/
Cultural Anthropology
Analysis of the concept and its importance for the study of man;
an examination of various cultures of the world as they relate to
technological, economic, social, political, and religious aspects of
these cultures.
/