Intro to Computers
This course will introduce the students to microcomputer usage and will fulfill
the core curriculum computerliteracy/technology requirements. Topics include;
word processor, presentation, spreadsheet, anddatabase.
/
Crit Think Info Age 
This course is designed to equip students with the ability to apply critical
thinking in the field of Computing, Information Systems, Information
Technology, and Mathematics. They will demonstrate critical thinking skills
through the analysis and/or synthesis of information to draw conclusions or
make decisions on matters pertaining to career planning, personal growth and
goal-setting as potential careers of the future in the information age.
/
College Writing I
This course focuses on effective writing, grammar review, and critical thinking. Students
develop research and writing skills using classical rhetorical modes of
argument and logic and by writing college-level essays and research papers
with the use of information technology. 
/
Computer Programming I 
This course builds on the basic concepts and syntax of
the Java programming language. It is the first course in the series of
programming study in computer science. Topics include programming,
problem solving, design, construct, analysis of the programs and objectoriented programming. 
/
University 101 
This course is designed to help new college students develop study habits,
attitudes and knowledge which will lead to academic success. The course
content includes Florida Memorial University’s history and resources, student
time management, study methods, memory techniques, career exploration,
and cultural literacy.
/
College Writing II 
This is an intensive writing, reading, and research course. Students compose research
papers and college-level essays based on readings from poetry, short stories,
drama, novels, periodicals, and other literature, incorporating the use of
information technology. 
/
Calculus I
A brief review of functions and plane analytic geometry; intuitive and
geometric definitions of limit, continuity and derivative; differentiation of
elementary functions; and applications of derivatives, including sketching
graphs of functions, and optimization problems.
/
Calculus II 
Indefinite integral, Riemann sums and definite integral, elementary integration techniques, and
applications of integration.
/
Critical Think/Read
This course develops and strengthens the critical
thinking skills needed for reading college and professional materials, and will
include bias and propaganda, fallacies, connotation/ denotation,
inductive/deductive reasoning, problem-solving, and inferential thinking.
/
Introduction to Public Speak 
An introduction to effective communication in speaker-audience situations.
Students learn basic techniques of researching, organizing and presenting
their own, original ideas to an audience. There is additional emphasis on
developing effective listening skills and ethical communication strategies for
use in a democratic society.
/
Data Structures 
This course studies the basic concepts of
data structures and associated algorithms. The course covers arrays, simple
sorting algorithms, stacks and queues, linked lists, recursion, advanced
sorting, binary trees, red-black trees, 2-3-4 trees and external storage, hash
tables, heaps graphs, and weighted graphs. The relative advantages and
disadvantages of data structure and its use are discussed.
/
Computer Programming II 
Uses analysis and review of existing systems to explain
the structured systems analysis and design process. Working with the
system’s life cycles, topics include flow diagrams, cost/benefit analysis,
interviewing and documentation. 
/
African Amer His I 
This is an intensive reading course. The course promotes the awareness and
exploration of relevant books and materials concerning the lives, struggles,
achievements, and contributions of African Americans. 
/
Discrete Math 
Propositional and predicate logic, set theory, axiomatic construction of mathematical structures, mapping,
cardinal numbers, and principles of mathematicalinduction.
/
Probability & Stats 
Probability concepts, discrete and continuous distributions, random variables, expectation and variance,
frequency distribution, statistical inferences and sampling, hypotheses testing
for the mean and variance of a population.
/
Intro to Religion 
This is an intensive reading and writing course surveying the practices and
associated customs of the major recognized religions of the world, such as
Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism and Islam.
/
Computer Organization
This course introduces computer
hardware and system software concepts. The objective is to provide technical
knowledge and skills on computer resource management, systems design, and
systems implementation. Material on systems architecture, data storage
technology, systems integration and performance, input/output technology,
data and network communication, computer networks, application
development, operating systems, file management, internet and distributed
applications, and system administration are presented in this course.
/
Computer Programming III 
The course covers common algorithms such as
recursion, searching and sorting, multimedia, handling multithreads, and
network programming.
/
Operating Systems 
Introduces the students to operating systems and systems programming. Topics include design, implementation, and
maintenance techniques, multi-level memory management and resource
allocation, scheduling supervisors, loaders, I/O control systems, multiprogramming, file and systems protection.
/
Network/Data  Communications 
This course covers the basic concepts of network and
data communications. The course covers sections on network design essentials,
media, interface cards, communications and protocols, architectures,
administration and support, types of networks, troubleshooting network
problems, and internetresources.
/
Artificial Intelligence 
This course discusses various areas of artificial
intelligence including knowledge representation, learning vision, expert
systems, robotics and natural languages. Artificial Intelligence programming
languages and their techniques and control structures are alsopresented.
/
Database Conc & Design
The study focuses on the theoretical design
and management of database systems conceptual data models,
implementation models, data dictionary and policy formulation. The study
will also uncover structures relating to databases, design methodology,
normalization, integrity constraints, distributed databases, data warehouse,
and relational algebra.
/
Physics with Calculus I 
This course covers the principles of classical mechanics using the techniques of the calculus-- vectors,
laws of circular motion, work/energy conservation laws, linear and angular
momentum, rotation of rigid bodies, oscillatory motion, the laws of
thermodynamics, and the kinetic theory of gases.
/
Physics with Calculus II 
This course covers electric fields and forces, Gauss’ Law, electric potential, capacitance and
dielectrics, current and resistance, direct current circuitry, magnetic fields and
their sources, Faraday’s Law, inductance and alternating current circuits,
geometric optics, and physical optics using the calculustechniques.
/
Physics with Calculus I Laboratory 
Experiments include error estimation, laws of linear motion and collision; extended circular motion; mechanical equivalent of
heat; diffraction; polarization; analysis of spectral lines; propagation,
reflection, and refraction of light; transfer of heat, and expansion of materials
using calculus.
/
Physics with Calculus II Laboratory
Experiments include induction; electric circuits; Ohm’s Law; dependence of resistance on length, area, and temperature; parallel and
series connection of resistors; motors; electromagnetism and induction;
characteristics of parallel plate capacitors; motion of charges in a magnetic
field; and deflection of an electron beam by homogeneous magnetic fields.
/
Spanish I
This course and its sequel, constitute the basic sequence in Spanish. Emphasis is on the development of competence in the language
/
Spanish II
This course completes the sequence in the Spanish language core requirement. It prepares students for
advanced course work in Spanish if desired. 
/
Software Engineering Principles
This course uncovers the process of software
engineering from beginning concepts, to design, testing, maintenance and
retirement. Issues concerning integration, software quality, security, fault
tolerance, human factors, operation, product feasibility and organizational
structures are discussed.
/
Senior Project 
This is a capstone course for senior majors in the
Computer and Information Sciences. Students will have an opportunity to
undertake valuable research in areas of computer science, computer
information systems, and management information systems to organize into
teams and select a design project, complete the preliminary design project for
approval and finally present detail and final design work or prototype to 
departmental faculty.
/
Programming Languages
This course studies the basic concepts of
programming languages. Students will gain a broad comprehension of many
diverse programming languages, along with confidence and understanding,
allowing the students to adopt new languages as they become available in the
future.
/
Complexity Analysis of Algorithms 
This course is a study of algorithm design,
algorithm complexity analysis, and problem complexity analysis. Types of
problems addressed will include dynamic programming, searching and
sorting, divide & conquer, backtracking, branch-and-bound.
/
Cryptography and Network Security
This course explores the algorithms for secure computation and security
challenges in network and protocol design. The course also studies Public and
Private Key Cryptography, Multi-party Computation, Secret Sharing,
Distributed, Homomorphic and functional encryption, and Network Security
and Protocol Design.
/
Computer Ethics 
This course deals with the ethical and
social issues arising from the development and deployment of computers in
society. The course also provides fundamental information about computer
and technology ethics, as well as the details the ramifications of continuing
technological developments with regard to privacy, security, piracy, access to
computing technology for person with disabilities and other important
philosophical and ethical issues.
/