/
First-Year Seminar
The First-Year Seminar is a discussion/experience-based course intended to orient the new
student to Gannon University, to introduce the Liberal Studies Core and LIFECORE, to assist
in the transition from high school to university life, and to encourage development of
academic, personal and spiritual aspects of the student’s life.
/
Prob. Solv. & Comp. Programming
The course focuses on problem solving and its relationship to computer programming.
The student is introduced to the tools for developing the solution to a problem, and its
subsequent implementation as an algorithm in a computer program. Once the introductory
concepts of computer algorithm development have been assimilated, the student progresses to
creating programs in the Java programming language including sequence, condition, iteration,
functional decomposition and object use.
/
Prob. Solv. & Comp. Program. Lab
Prob. Solv. & Comp. Program. Lab
/
Calculus 1
Limits; derivatives of algebraic and trigonometric functions; graphing; related rates;
optimization problems.
/
Introduction to Networks
The theory and techniques of data communications design and analysis are studied. Topics
include data communication concepts, terminology, and standards. Error correction and
detection, LANs, ISO/OSI layers are also an integral part of this course. 
/
College Composition
The principles of logic, rhetoric, and language and their use in written discourse. Application of
these theories to numerous reading and writing assignments. Much attention to basic writing
skills. 
/
Foundations of Theology
Rooted in the richness of the Catholic Intellectual Tradition, this course explores the religious
experiences of the human person and their relationship to Christian moral living. 
/
Object-Oriented Programming
The course is aimed at developing advanced object-oriented programming skills, and assumes
a foundation in the basic syntax of Java. The student will explore the basis of software
development using the major constructs of encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance and
dynamic binding. Topics include GUI objects, event-driven programming, threading,
networking and exception handling.
/
Object-Oriented Programming Lab
Object-Oriented Programming Lab
/
Calculus 2
The definite and indefinite integrals; applications of integration; techniques of integration;
calculus of the exponential, logarithmic, and other transcendental functions.
/
Critical Analysis & Composition
Development of the reading, research, and writing skills needed to use library resources to
solve problems in a variety of disciplines, and relate these solutions to appropriate audiences.
/
Introduction to Philosophy
An introduction to the study of philosophy. Beginning with the dawn of philosophical
awareness among the ancient Greek philosophers, the course surveys both traditional and
modern approaches to the philosophical understanding of the human condition. 
/
Fundamentals of Physics 1: Mechanics
This course provides a calculus-based introduction to mechanics and emphasizes both
quantitative and conceptual understanding of the material. Topics covered include kinematics
in one and two dimensions, Newton’s laws of motion, rotational motion, conservation of
energy and momentum, and gravitation.
/
Fundamentals of Physics 1 Lab
Labs are designed to build conceptual and quantitative understanding of the material.
/
Data Structures & Algorithms
An in-depth programming-based study of data structures and of algorithms for their
manipulation. Arrays, tables, stacks, queues, trees, linked lists, sorting, searching and hashing
are topics considered.
/
The User Experience
This course deals with the study of the user experience (UX), and its relationship to human
computer interaction. This course includes identifying and assessing usability issues,
particularly as they apply to computer-based systems. Includes coverage of UX goals and
processes, usability factors and measurements, wireframes and other prototyping
technologies, and introductory web implementation. Special attention is given to usability
and usability testing.
/
The Bible: An Introduction 
Students will explore the structure, theological themes, literary forms, and historical context of
the Judeo-Christian Bible using methods of Biblical interpretation. 
/
Discrete Mathematics 1
Discrete Mathematics 1
Logic, sets, methods of mathematical proof, functions, mathematical induction, counting
methods, recurrence relations, graphs.
/
Mobile Application Development I
This is an introductory course into the methods and tools for developing mobile applications
for integrated devices such as iOS, Android and other mobile computing platforms. Topics
include introduction to the coding and development platforms for one of the major mobile
platforms (e.g., iOS or Android), unit testing, source code control, the development of
prototype applications, and deployment
/
Object-Oriented Design Lab
An advanced treatment of methods for producing a software design. Includes treatment
of the developing Unified Modeling Language (UML) models and their application to software
development.
/
Technical Communication
This course is an introduction to the exploration of the procedures of preparing a public speech
with emphasis on personal credibility, audience analysis, and effective delivery techniques. This
course fulfills Gannon University’s Liberal Studies Speech requirement for students enrolled in
programs approved by the Liberal Studies Committee.
/
Database Management & Administration
Develop skills in query statements usage for programming, database design, as well as
implementing and managing SQL servers. The core concept of SQL database design, usage
and server configuration will be first introduced. Query statements for programming and
SQL server management will be substantially taught. Essential skills for administrating
a database are covered.
/
Algorithm Development Lab
Fundamental techniques, searching, sorting, tree, graph and backtracking algorithms are covered.
/
Discrete Mathematics 2
Algorithms, relations, topics in graph theory, tree traversal, spanning trees, Boolean algebra,
logic gates, circuits, automata, Turing machines.
/
Numerical Analysis
Taylor polynomials, machine representation of numbers, computational error, interpolation,
root finding, systems of linear equations, curve fitting, numerical differentiation and
integration.
/
Software Engineering
The course provides an overview of software requirements analysis, the software design
process, verification and validation, software maintenance, and documentation. The major
emphasis of the course is a project that provides experience in the design and development of a
significant software project.
/
Fundamentals of Physics 3 Lab
Labs are designed to build conceptual and quantitative understanding of the material
/
Fundamentals of Physics 3: Electricity and Magnetism
This course provides a calculus-based introduction to electricity and magnetism and
emphasizes quantitative and conceptual understanding of the material. Topics covered include
Coulomb’s Law, electric fields, electric potential, basic DC and AC circuits, magnetic fields,
magnetic induction, and Maxwell’s equations
/
Web Programming and Implementation
Focuses on the development of web applications with user interface conventions that facilitate
viewing, searching, and changing of information stored in a relational database. The student
will also learn to set up and configure the development environment for applications
requiring a web client, web server, application server and relational database.
/
Formal Methods in Software DevelopmentFocusing on the issues and techniques needed to apply formal specification methods to the
development of software, the course uses mathematical and logical formalism to develop a
precise statement of what software is to do.
/
Linux Programming
This course introduces the students to the Linux boot and login processes, basic process
management techniques, file system, user controlled software build process, and basic
application software architecture using the operating system. This course applies the concepts
of shells, shell programming, controlling tasks developed with high-level programming
languages to understand co-operating tasks by using signals and inter-processing
communication (IPC). By applying the various software techniques, the student will
comprehend the basic Linux Operating System (OS) concepts.
/
Probability and Statistics 1
Enumeration, probability, independence, probability distributions, random variables,
expectation, mean, variance, moment generating functions, Central Limit Theorem, sampling
distributions, and other selected topics.
/
Project Economics
This course develops the techniques necessary for understanding economic price theory, the
time-value of money, and the basic issues surrounding organizational architecture. These
include issues surrounding supply and demand, cost-production, decision making and
market models. In particular, the course focuses on the application of these economic theories
to projects, including issues surrounding risk analysis and triage, budgeting, planning, and
scheduling necessary to the successful completion of a project
/
CIS Leadership Seminar
The Leadership Seminar introduces students to a three-dimensional model of leadership,
including a repertoire of leadership skills and means of using those skills responsibly in the
various communities to which they belong. In addition, the course helps students explore the
relevance of leadership skills in the leadership process. 
/
CIS Professional SeminarThe course focuses on current issues facing engineering and software professionals. Included
with the focus, is an introduction to technical speaking as well as a review of trends in the
software, computing and other engineering fields, job prospects, political issues, team and
workplace behavior.
/
Server Management
This course focuses on the configuration of networks for internet services, and how to
deploy and maintain internet servers on multiple platforms. The course includes extensive
laboratory work to support the installation and configuration of hardware and software to
support networking, servers, and security for internet services, particularly on Windows and
UNIX platforms. 
/
Number Theory & Cryptography
Introduction to the theory of integers and basic cryptography. Topics include: primes,
divisibility, unique factorization, congruences, applications to cryptography (including RSA
and Diffie-Hellman), primitive roots, and quadratic reciprocity.
/
Advanced Multi-Media
The course covers advanced multimedia concepts such as graphics, animation, video and
sound; as well as the tools used to create multimedia applications. In addition, the course
presents the design principles and management skills needed to develop dynamic, interactive
multimedia products
/
Philosophy of Ethical Responsibility
The subject matter of ethics is “the good life and how to live it.” Students will examine a variety
of influential approaches to ethics, and will gain skill in applying ethical theory both to practical
ethical issues in daily life, and to some of the urgent ethical issues in contemporary society
/
Computer Architecture
This course is for understanding the interactions between computer hardware and software,
Von-Neumann and Harvard architectures, hardware, software and system performance
measurement, and instruction-set architecture (ISA). In particular, this course offers students
the opportunity to understand and enrich their capability to interface between software (e.g.,
computer instructions and assembly language programming) and hardware (e.g., computer
arithmetic, processor control and data manipulation, memory hierarchy and performance,
and I/O subsystems) components. 
/
Senior Design I
The Liberal Studies senior capstone is the culminating experience of the Core curriculum
and therefore requires students to integrate knowledge and skills from their major study
areas, Liberal Studies courses, and co-curricular experiences. The course emphasizes cultural
competence, leadership, ethical reasoning, 
/
Comparative Languages
An introduction to modern computing concepts and computational models as embodied in a
number of different classes of languages. The course includes an introduction to functionbased languages such as ML. LISP, Scheme; 
logic-based languages such as Prolog, Parlog, Strand, OPS; and object-oriented languages such as JAVA, Smalltalk, Eiffel.
/
System and Network Security
The course reviews standard computer security for desktop and server-based systems.
Coverage includes network security issues and techniques. Ethical hacking and defenses
against unethical hacking and other computer and network intrusions are discussed.
/
Philosophy of Knowledge, Certitude and Truth
A study of the possibility and validity of human knowledge, together with the criteria
of truth. 
/
History without Borders
The most important ideas, issues, problems, and developments that mark the changing fortunes
of the West’s interaction with the world from the Seventeenth Century to the present. 
/
Operating Systems
An introduction to the study of operating systems. Topics covered include: process
manipulation and synchronization, processor management, storage management, security,
I/O and file systems, and basic distributed system concepts.
/
Senior Design II Lab
The completion of the capstone design sequence. Students develop and deliver a completed
end product. Emphasis is on working effectively in cross-disciplinary teams. Course topics
include organizational behavior, quality assurance, documentation, design process and
process metrics, risk management, written and oral presentation skills, ethical issues in the
digital world.
/
Distributed Programming
An introduction to the fundamental techniques and tools used developing programs that rely
on inter-process communication. Topics include TCP/IP, client-server paradigm, daemon
programs, client socket calls, server socket calls, concurrent vs. iterative servers,
connectionless and connection-oriented server paradigms, advanced topics.
/
Poetry
This course helps students develop an appreciation, understanding and evaluation of poetry as
it reflects human experience in diverse cultural contexts.
/
American Architecture
A broad survey of the American architectural tradition. The entire range of American building
practices is examined, from the earliest colonial experiments to the latest Postmodern
skyscrapers.
/
Multimedia Production
Multimedia software uses text, graphics, sound, animation, and video to entertain, inform or
educate its users. This course examines all parts of the multimedia software development
process and provides hands-on experience with the use of multimedia software authoring tools.
/