/
Programming Fundamentals
This is the first course in the computer science programming
sequence and is required of all computer science
majors. Course objectives include: introduction to
problem solving methods and algorithm development;
definition of language syntax and semantics of a
high level programming language; and developing
the ability to design, code, debug, document, and
successfully execute programs. Topics include
objects and classes, data types, applets and
graphics, decision statements, iteration, methods,
testing and debugging, arrays, sorting and searching,
inheritance, interfaces and polymorphism
/
Object-Oriented Programming. 
This course is the follow-up of CSC 118.
Additional topics in Object-Oriented Programming
are covered in this course. Then the emphasis shifts
to object-oriented analysis and design. This course
covers I/O streams, exception handling, threads,
reflection, UML, object-oriented analysis and design,
object-oriented graphical user interfaces, design
patterns, and refactoring
/
Discrete Structures for Computer Science. 
Introduces the foundations of discrete mathematics
as they apply to computer science, focusing on
providing a solid theoretical foundation for further
work. Topics include basic logic, proof techniques, sets,
bags, ordered structures, graphs, trees, facts and
properties of functions, and construction techniques
/
Composition I
This course is the first
part of the two-semester freshman composition
program and is designed to give intensive study
and practice in writing themes. Emphasis is placed
on grammar and mechanics, the sentence, the
paragraph, and the essay
/
Composition II
with emphasis
on critical thinking and writing essays; writing the
research paper, business letters, and resumes.
/
University Success in College
Experience and offers a global, comprehensive and
personalized approach to student success through
textbook, stimulating lectures, action research,
leadership development, library initiatives, and
service learning.
/
History of Civilization I
A global survey
and study of the histories of major geographical
regions and populations between humans’ prehistory
beginnings and their civilizational, societal, and
cultural developments by the 15th century. Additionally,
the course provides and promotes student learning
outcomes that include content literacy about the
human historical experience and the honing of
specific skill sets–i.e., reading comprehension, critical,
and analytical thinking as well as effective written
and oral communication.
/
History of Civilization II
A global survey
and study of the histories of population groups,
their regional geographics and their civilizational
and cultural developments from the 15th and the
21st century. The course emphasizes both content
literacy and enrichment as well as the honing of skill
sets, especially students’ reading comprehension,
analytical and critical thinking, problem solving and
effective oral and written communication.
/
Calculus I with Laboratory. 
Functions,
limits, continuity, differentiation, limiting forms,
applications, properties of continuous functions,
analytic geometry and integration. The Laboratory
component is designed to reinforce the lecture
component with activities requiring the use of
technology in the form of computers with selective
software and graphing utilities
/
Calculus II with Laboratory. 
Applications of the definite
integral, logarithmic exponential and inverse
trigonometric functions. Techniques and further
application of the definite integral, parametric
equations and polar coordinates. The laboratory
component is designed to reinforce the lecture
component with activities requiring the use of
technology in the form of computers with selective
software and graphing utilities.
/
Introduction to Biology
Designed to acquaint the student with fundamental principles of
biological science and their functional applications. 
/
General Chemistry I
A study of the types and properties of
matter, measurement, qualitative and quantitative
descriptions of chemical reactions, atomic structure,
bonding and thermochemistry
/
Computer Architecture and Organization.
Topics include machine level representations of data, computer arithmetic, instruction set
architecture and assembly language, datapath and
control, memory system and bus architectures and
I/O devices. Also, the compilation and the assembly
processes, and linking and loading are covered
/
Data Structures and Algorithms. 
The concepts of data abstraction and
data structures are developed. For the basic data
structures of linked lists, stacks, queues, hash
tables, graphs, and trees, associated algorithms are
described and analyzed.The course also treats recursion, sorting, fundamentals of software engineering,
and the philosophy of object-orientation. 
/
Digital Logic
This is an introductory course to digital
design. Topics include number systems, binary
logic, Boolean algebra, truth tables, minimization
of Boolean functions. K-maps, and Flip-Flops,
Designs include combinational circuits, counters, and
sequential circuits.
/
World Literature I. 
A one-semester survey of
classical literary masterpieces representative of the
Ancient, Medieval, and Renaissance and Modern
Periods. The course will assist the student in reading
literary works with increased perceptiveness and
understanding of the complex resources available
to the imaginative writer for the representation of
human experience and reality.
/
Professional Writing
A course designed for those students of varied academic backgrounds
and occupational interests whose jobs or careers will,
or already do, require specific writing skills. Since
many of the types of writing are not taught in basic
composition courses, this course offers students
opportunities to enhance these particular skills, thereby
providing them with on the job experience that
would not ordinarily be gained in regular composition 
/
Calculus III with Laboratory
Infinite sequences and
series, differential calculus of functions of several
variables, multiple integrals. The laboratory
component is designed to reinforce the lecture
component with activities requiring the use of
technology in the form of computers with selective
software and graphing utilities.
/
Advanced Computer Architecture
Uniprocessor computer
architectures are reviewed. Quantitative approaches
of computer designs are emphasized. Performance
enhancements to the uniprocessor architecture model,
including pipelining and superscalar architectures,
techniques to reduce instruction pipeline stalls, and
memory organization techniques are studied. Advanced
computer organizations, performance evaluation, and
programming of vector processors, array processors,
and multi processors are also covered. 
/
Algorithm Design and Analysis. 
Introduces
students to various techniques to design and
analyze algorithms. Topics include examples of
computational problems, basic issues related to
algorithms, efficiency comparison, and the design
and analysis of brute force, divide-and-conquer,
decrease-and-conquer, and transform-and-conquer
algorithm design strategies
/
Operating Systems
This course
introduces the major concepts of process
communication and synchronization, protection,
performance measurement, and causes and
evaluations of the problems associated with mutual
exclusions and process synchronization among
concurrent processes. This course introduces and
analyzes various operating systems in terms of
processor management, memory management,
device management, information management, and
distributed systems management. 
/
Database Systems
This course is designed to
introduce students to the concepts and theories
of database systems. Topics include: information
models and systems; the database environment; data
modeling; conceptual modeling using the entityrelationship approach and mapping to relational
tables; the relational model including the relational
data structure, integrity rules, relational algebra and
relational calculus; normalization; data definition
and data manipulation in SQL; conceptual, logical,
and physical database design; security; transaction
management; query processing; and advanced
topics in database systems
/
Organization of Programming Languages. 
Study of the organization and specification of
programming languages. Topics include an overview
of programming languages; issues in language
design, including typing regimens, data structure
models, control structure models, and abstraction;
virtual machines; language translation; interpreters;
compiler design; lexical analysis; parsing; symbol
tables; declaration and storage management; code
generation; and optimization techniques
/
Modern Foreign Language 
Modern Foreign Language 
/
General Physics I
Introduction to mechanics, wave motion, sound,
and heat.
/
General Physics II
Introduction to electricity, magnetism, optics,
and modern physics.
/
Elementary School Mathematics
Introduction to concepts of probability and statistics required to
solve problems in various disciplines; mathematical
basis for probability and statistics includes axioms of
probability, continuous sampling distributions, and
discrete probability, hypothesis testing, confidence
intervals, probability estimations for risk assessment,
data processing and statistical inference, statistical
techniques of data analysis, simple and multiple
regression model development; stochastic processes,
emphasis is on the application of probability, statistics
and reliability to rational decision making, data analysis
and model estimation in engineering context
/
Computer Networks
ourse will primarily
focus on the following five layers of the TCP/IP
protocol stack: Physical, Link, Network, Transport,
and Application layers. Topics to be covered include:
Physical Layer–encoding and decoding data for
short distance and long-distance communications;
Link Layer–local area network technologies and their
extension using interconnection devices; Network
Layer–routing protocols, IP addressing, subnets,
datagram forwarding, fragmentation, and other
auxiliary network-level communication protocols;
/
Computers and Society
This course presents concepts
of computer moral and legal issues, describes
the impact of computers on society and presents
techniques which are applicable in addressing
problems posed by the social impact of computers.
As a Service Learning Course, students will be able
to help agencies and businesses in educating them
on the most recent Anti-virus software available,
viruses, e-mail scams, privacy issues, intellectual
property rights, and computer crimes
/
Software Engineering
Introduction to software engineering, software design,
APIs, software tools and environments, software
development processes, software requirements and
specifications, software verification and validation,
software implementation, software evolution, and
software project management
/
Senior Project.
Senior Project.
/
Digital Image Processing
Introduction to Digital Image
Processing and its Applications, where the emphasis
is on earth resources analysis. Subject matter
consists of Hardware and Software Requirements,
Transformations, Registration, Encoding, Enhancement
and Restoration, and Image Databases.
/