College Algebra
Includes algebraic
operations, equations and inequalities, functions and their
graphs, solution of polynomial, exponential and logarithmic
functions and linear systems of equations.
/
ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE
Presents design, management and administration of simple to complex network topologies. Introduces Internet connectivity and protocols supporting networked applications over a distributed network and their relationship with end-users. Examines the concepts of user content, applications, services, and infrastructure. 
/
NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE
Introduces the
foundations of network infrastructures and emerging network
technologies. Covers OSI model in depth, including TCP/IP.
Investigates the standards, design, architecture, and operation
of LAN, WAN and telecommunications services. Introduces
basic switching and routing concepts.
/
FOUNDATIONS OF CYBER SECURITY
Introduces the principles and practices of information security
including security models, internal and external security threats,
and attacks. Topics include cryptography, network, mobile,
host, applications, data, access control, and operational security. 
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF SECURITY MANAGEMENT
Examines security management, risk analysis, disaster
recovery, business continuity planning, and information security
legal issues. Topics include planning for security, security
technologies, risk mitigation, vulnerability assessment, and
security laws and regulations.
/
ETHICS FOR THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
PROFESSIONAL
Focuses on ethical problems that arise in
the Information Technology world. Explores the areas of INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
crime, privacy, intellectual property, software development, and
employer/employee issues. Introduces the codes of ethics for
various INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY professional associations and organizations.
/
SYSTEMS ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Studies the
analysis and design of computer based information systems.
Considers transformation processes and comprehensive design.
Includes advanced technology, emphasizing expert and
knowledge-based systems. Considers human resources,
communications and computers in a systems framework.
/
Introduction to Statistics
Presents standard topics in introductory statistics for students
whose major is not mathematics. Topics include descriptive
statistic, probability distributions, estimations, hypothesis testing,
linear regression and correlation, and other topics. 
/
INTRODUCTION TO PROGRAMMING
Entrylevel course in which students practice software development
using elementary selection, looping, method, string, array, and
object constructs implemented in a modern programming
language. 
/
DATA STRUCTURES
Studies structures for
representing data and continued practice with software
development. Uses algorithms to process these structures,
including linked list, stack, queue, hash table, and tree data
structures, along with various searching and sorting algorithms.
/
WEB AND DATABASE APPLICATIONS
Introduces web-based multi-tiered distributed application
development. Topics include using markup and scripting
languages in the Presentation tier, services in the (web and
business) Logic tier, and a relational database in the Data tier. 
/
HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTION
Investigates and analyzes user-centered methodologies in the
development, evaluation, and deployment of INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY applications and
systems. Emphasizes HCI areas such as user and task analysis, 
human factors, ergonomics, accessibility standards, and
cognitive psychology
/
CYBER FORENSICS
Introduces the principles and
practices of digital forensics including digital investigations, data
and file recovery methods, and digital forensics analysis and
invalidation. Topics include data acquisition, digital forensics
tools, virtual machines, network, mobile device, and cloud
forensics
/
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION
Introduces
operating systems concepts and system administration tasks,
including software installation, system configuration, and
managing user accounts. Emphasizes server administration and
management, user and group management, backup, security,
resource, and automation management
/
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Investigates the principles of information systems audit, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY audit
tools, audit procedures to help in detection and prevention of
security breaches and fraud. Examines the solutions that can be
used to prevent information loss or costly business
interruptions, the role of information technology governance in
business organizations, reporting requirements, and industry
standards for INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Governance
/
MANAGEMENT OF ENTERPRISE NETWORKS
Explores datacenter support and management requiring the
integration of servers, applications and data storage with
business operations and goals. Examines the impact of ethical,
governance and legal concerns on business operations. 
/
SENIOR CAPSTONE
Provides the culminating
experience of the major, focusing on integration and application
of theory
/
DATABASE MANAGEMENT
Introduces core
concepts in data management. Students identify organizational
information requirements, convert conceptual data models into
relational data models, apply normalization techniques, and
utilize an Oracle relational database management system in a
virtual lab environment
/
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Provides a
foundational and practical knowledge of project management
principles. Identifies tools and processes for managing projects
using both Waterfall and Agile methodologies
/
WIRELESS NETWORKS
This course examines
wireless technologies used in infrared, spread spectrum,
microwave, and cellular systems. Discuss integration of
WLANs, satellite communications and cellular systems in an
organization. Includes protocols, security practices and
applications used on wireless technologies
/
ETHICAL HACKING AND DEFENSE
Explores
security threats and vulnerabilities that face computer network
engineers by using penetration testing techniques. Examines
requirements for a formal hacking lab and discusses ethical
boundaries between white and black hat hacking. 
/
CYBER CRIME AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLIANCE
Examines
societal, ethical, and legal issues involved in information
assurance as implemented through ethics and laws. Analysis of
compliance themes that affect INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY environment for financial,
publicly traded, and healthcare organizations as well as industry 
/
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Explores organizational and technical theories of management
information systems with an emphasis on the healthcare
industry. Examines management information system
technology and its components. Introduces data analytics and
how it can be used within the healthcare area.
/
ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS
Provides an understanding
of the managerial/technical issues in planning, designing, and
implementing enterprise systems. Demonstrates the
integration of information and business processes across
functional areas into a unified system. Hands-on experience
with SAP ERP software
/
STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
how INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY is changing and will continue to change organizations as
we now know them by introducing the complex decisions
facing real organizations through a number of mini cases and a
cyber security simulator. These provide an opportunity to apply
the models/theories/frameworks presented, giving students the
confidence and ability to tackle the tough issues regarding INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
management and strategy, and a clear understanding of their
importance in delivering business value
/
SPEECH COMMUNICATION
Provides an
overview of the process of communication and introduces
communication theory. Provides practical training in the
fundamentals of effective presentation for individuals in both public
speaking and group communication settings. Emphasizes discussion
of contemporary issues and the analysis of public discourse.
/
TECHNOLOGY-BASED PUBLIC SPEAKING
Provides knowledge and skills to lead others more effectively
through presentational communication utilizing online technology
and delivery frameworks. Includes developing more meaningful
voice based on ethical communication, audience engagement and
thoughtful responses to contemporary issues
/
COMMUNICATION IN A TECHNOLOGICAL
ENVIRONMENT
Explores the impact of the computer culture
on human communication. Identifies how the computer culture
has changed communication, norms, expectations and language.
Practices key competencies associated with communication
interaction, including interpersonal, organizational and conflict
communication
/
PERSUASION, INFLUENCE AND MOTIVATION
Examines the general theories that explain persuasion and one’s
ability to influence others. Discusses communication skills,
attitudes and competencies associated with persuasion, influence
and motivation. Enables students to learn and practice powerful
persuasion communication skills that will enhance both personal
and professional success.
/
CULTURAL INTELLIGENCE
Develops culture
competence skills required in today's global economy. Foundation
to the theory and practice of cultural intelligence, which predicts
adjustment and success in multicultural settings. Examines deep
layers of culture, including core worldview assumptions. 
/
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
Using
readings, film, field experience and/or dialogue, the course
investigates cultural identity, meaning, patterns, relationships and
conflicts that arise as contact increases between people of
different cultures in our global society
/
CONTEMPORARY MATHEMATICS
Presents
topics in contemporary mathematics that are relevant to the
Liberal Arts student. Develops the skills required to understand
and interpret quantitative information that students encounter in
the Liberal Arts curriculum
/
NATURAL SCIENCE
Focuses on the basic
elements of the natural sciences to provide students with a broad
understanding of various themes including Geology, Astronomy
and basic Physics
/
ADVANCED SCIENCE
Explores various
scientific disciplines and practices, as well as the application of
science in everyday life
/
Philosophical Inquiry and Reflection
Philosophical Inquiry and Reflection
/



