/
Programming II for Information Technology and Systems
Examines programming using traditional and visual development environments to learn event-driven, object-oriented design with emphasis on software development best practices for effective software
maintenance and modernization.
/
Foundations of Information Management
Examines the fundamental concepts involved in industry based database design, administration, and
usage. Topics include information retrieval, database administration, database models, design theory,
database security, and database driven application programming
/
Foundations of Human Computer Interaction for Information Technology & Systems
Examines the principles of human computer interaction. Studies issues of computer and system design
more holistically with an emphasis on how such systems can be improved through proactive designs.
Topics include human factors, human-centered computing and evaluation, effective interfaces,
accessibility, legal issues, and social and organizational context.
/
Foundations Web Design and Programming
Examines selected topics in technology for web design and programming, paying particular attention to
client interactions on the World Wide Web. Studies unique concepts and technologies in developing
client-side of a web-based information system such as XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, XML, AJAX,
JSON, and Web 2.0
/
Discrete Math for IT
Examines selected topics of discrete mathematics and statistics as applicable to students of information
technology and systems. Topics include basic logic, discrete probability, functions, relations, sets,
hypothesis testing, sampling and description statistics, graphs and trees, regular expressions, and
application of mathematics and statistics to information technology.
/
Foundations of Information Networking
Explores computer networking and telecommunications fundamentals including LANs, WANs, Intranets,
and the World Wide Web. Studies data communication concepts, models, and protocols. Practices
installation, configuration, systems integration, and management of infrastructure technologies.
/
Foundations of Information Assurance
Studies the need for information security policies, standards, and procedures. Topics include: trust
models; security policy design and incident response; and tools and techniques to defend against, react
to, and recover from a cyber attack.
/
Hardware and Software Systems
Examines functions of hardware and software systems. Topics include CPU, memory, registers,
addressing modes, busses, instruction-sets, multi processors versus single processors; peripherals: harddisks and storage, display, device controllers, input/output; operating systems functions and types;
process, memory and file system management; and examples and contrasts of hardware architecture
and operating systems.
/
Information Systems Analysis and Design
Examines concepts and techniques for analyzing and designing software systems to meet maintenance and modernization requirements such as changes of business logics, integration, and computing
paradigms. Topics include software aging, reengineering, modeling, pattern, process, and cases.
/
Managing Technical Teams
Examines current topics and issues associated with study and practice of iterative and incremental
development and project team management with emphasis on practical project experience. Studies
topics like modeling computing projects through the discovery/invention/implementation cycle; learning,
experiencing, and obtaining feedback on group dynamics; collaborative relationships; and conflict
management.
/
Statistics
Addresses introductory statistical concepts and analysis in modern society. Includes descriptive statistics,
graphical displays of data, the normal distribution, data collection, probability, elements of statistical
inference, hypothesis testing, and linear regression and correlation. Practical examples used to
demonstrate statistical concepts. 
/
Technical Writing
Teaches objective-oriented and audience-centered communication for the workplace, while focusing on
key genres of technical communication - reports, proposals, manual, and document design - essential for
success in the professional world.
/
Computers, Ethics, and Society
Analyzes social, political, and ethical implications of computer and information technologies. Covers
Western ethical theories, professional ethics, and diverse topics in computer ethics. Emphasizes writing
and the construction of ethical arguments.
/
Senior Project
Focuses on detail, implementation, testing, deployment, maintenance, and demonstration of the capstone
design project. Requires written and oral reports and creation of a final project binder. 
/
Internship
Gives experience working in real-world information technology environment. Demonstrates how the life
cycle of information technology and systems such as maintenance, modernization, replacement, etc. is
conducted within an organization. 
/
Database Design
Provides an overview of various data solutions used today. Covers RDBMS design, performance
optimization, NoSQL, object database, object relational database, and big data. Focuses on choosing the
optimal database for application and designing 
/
Server Side Web Applications
Examines selected topics in technology for client/server application, paying particular attention to
client/server interactions on the WWW. Studies topics like multi-tier architecture, application server,
database server, database middleware, forms, client-side programming, server-side programming,
Component-Based Design (CBD), database programming for web application, rich client programming,
and web services.
/
Network Security
Covers cryptographic methods including public and private key algorithms. Examines protocols that utilize
secure email, digital signatures, authorization, e-voting, and electronic cash. Examines the fundamentals
of security issues arising from computer networks. 
/
Computer Security
Discusses the theoretical and practical issues surrounding computer security and data protection.
Explores formal models of encryption and authentication. Examines operating system and program
security with vulnerabilities analyses. Includes a lab component for demonstrating computer security
techniques such as malware analysis, and access control. 
/