BASIC MATHEMATICS I
Real numbers and the application of their properties in solving equations and
inequalities. Analytical geometry: Cartesian plane coordinate system; distance between two
points; geometric places; equation graph; the straight line; circumference, parabola, ellipse e
hyperbola; polar coordinates.
/
METHODS AND STUDY TECHNIQUES
Fundamentals of Method, Technique and Strategy.
Factors that influence the study: Internal and External.
How to study: Learning and study methods. The reading.
Techniques to study: Underline, synthesis, concept maps, summary, signing, group work,
Expository
/
SYSTEM PHILOSOPHY
Fundamentals of Philosophy: Origins and limits. Who am I?
History of Philosophy.
Contribution of the Presocratics. What does it mean to be a professional in Systems Engineering?
The Socratic Method. Aristotle's philosophy. Medieval Philosophy Scholastic Philosophy Philosophy
Renaissance.
Modern Philosophy Contemporary Philosophy Phenomenology. Latin American Philosophy Peruvian philosophy.
/
ALGORITHMS AND PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES
Fundamentals of computer science and algorithm.
Algorithm representation: Flowcharts, pseudocode and N-S diagram, others.
Classes and Objects: Concepts, Properties and methods.
Control algorithms and repetitive algorithms.
Arrangements: Unidimensional (Vectors) and algorithms with vectors, ordering and search.
Two-dimensional arrangements (matrices): Most common operations with a matrix and with several matrices.
Chains and Dates.
Files
/
BASIC MATHEMATICS II
Complex numbers; system of linear equations; Vectors in the plane and in space. Matrices and
determinants Vector spaces - Linear transformations - Values ​​and eigenvectors.
/
MATHEMATICAL ANALYSIS I
The development of the subject includes the following thematic units: Functions of real variables,
limits, continuity, function graphs, exponential and logarithmic functions, functions
trigonometric, derivatives, applications of the derivative: maximum and minimum.
/
COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUES
Communication and its importance: Purposes, elements, types and importance of communication.
Communication functions and requirements for effective and efficient linguistic communication.
Oral Communication: Elocution, techniques, public speaking modalities, Exhibition or dissertation practice.
Writing: spelling of the word, speech and its importance. Properties and Requirements of the
writing, text structure, intra-textual relations, composition techniques, writing
Work documents.
/
PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE I
Problem solving methods: "Divide and conquer."
Object-oriented programming (OOP): classes and objects, methods.
Inheritance and Polymorphism: overload and over position of methods and overload of builders.
Encapsulation; introduction to exception handling
Dynamic polymorphism: overload and over position of methods and overload of builders. Management
Bits
Use of a predefined library to help solve moderately complex problems (collections,
math, character strings)
File handling: sequential streams (byte and character), random access files, streams
tokens, pipes, serialization.
/
SYSTEM THEORY
History of General Systems theory, main representatives and contributions to the
Systems Engineering, Objectives of the General Systems Theory. Systems thinking. Focus
of the systems. What is a system, definition of a system, Subsystem, Levels of organization,
System boundaries, properties, Open Systems and Closed Systems. Synergy Recursiveness.
System Elements Entropy and neguentropia, principles of organicity. Control Subsystem
Problemology, Introduction to the MSB, Introduction to the MSV.
/
STATISTICS AND PROBABILITIES
Treatment
and data analysis, from its collection, processing, presentation, conclusions and
some generalizations and interpretations of results, related to Systems Engineering. For
The practical development will use advanced software tools such as: SPSS, Minitab and Stackpack.
The contents of the Statistics and Probability course are divided into two thematic units:
Descriptive Statistics: basic concepts, frequency distributions and graphs, trend measures
central, dispersion, and asymmetry, two-dimensional distributions, correlation and regression.
Probability: axiomatic concept, conditional probability, bayes.
Simple linear regression model. Graphic representation. Analysis of
Correlation. Interpretations of the regression and correlation coefficients. Determination Coefficient
/
MATHEMATICAL ANALYSIS II
Integration Methods Defined integral applications. The indefinite integral and its
main solution methods and techniques, the definite integral and its applications in the Engineering of
Systems
Differential Equations: First order and first degree, first order and higher degree, of order
Superior applications
/
GENERAL PHYSICS
This subject is of great importance because it will help the student to understand the basis on which
The current science and technology in the world is grounded. In the race it will serve to analyze with criteria
technical and scientific the most recent contributions of the physical sciences and their possible applications in the
different problems that arise in the activities inherent to Systems Engineering. The
Subject contains: Newton's laws. Kinematics. Dynamic. Work and energy
/
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
The subject contains: Introduction to administration; Administration and managers, Theory evolution
Administrative The administration in the 21st century; Natural organizational environment, Globalization and l
administration, foreign trade and administration, Invent and reinvent organizations, culture
Organizational, Quality approaches, Social and ethical responsibility. The Planning; Decision making,
Strategic planning and administration, Implementation of strategies. The organization; design and
Organizational structure, Power and Distribution of authority, Resource Management, Administration
of Change and Organizational Innovation. Direction; Motivation, Leadership, Teams and teamwork,
Communication and negotiation. The control; Effective control, Operations management, Systems
Information.
/
ECOLOGY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Ecology. Definition. Origin and history Importance. Relationship with other sciences. Division: Auto ecology and
Without ecology. Ecological systems Models and components. Ambient.
Community. Ecological succession: primary and secondary succession. Climax community. Biocenosis Biotope
Energy flow in the environment. Food chains. Trophic plot. Ecological pyramids Key species.
Dominant species. Primary and secondary production. Ecological efficiency.
Ecosystem. Definition. Ecosystem models Circulation of energy Earth Ecosystems and
aquatic
Environmental problems in the world. Environmental problems in Peru. Environmental law. General Law
of Environment No. 28611 (October 13, 2005).
Sustainable development. Definition. Beginning. Background. Features.
Environmental education. Environmental awareness. Environmental defense
Eco development: national strategy. Politics and environment. Economy and environment Personal ethics and environment.
/

DATA STRUCTURE
Algorithm analysis and data abstraction.
Recursion
ADD list, stack and queue
Open type dispersion tables, the whole ADD.
Binary trees, n-Aryan trees, Graphs.
/
DATABASE SYSTEMS
The subject contains: Relational Model: Domains, Values. Relational Algebra Relational Calculation
Integrity. Relationship Entity Diagrams, Database Design: Functional Dependencies,
Database Standardization, Database Query Languages, Network Database, Design
Database, Database Creation and Management.
/
INFERENTIAL STATISTICS
In a process of economic globalization, where companies to stay in the market have to
to achieve the highest level of competitiveness, it is vital to study the procedures, and models
statistics offered by statistical inference for decision making.
The subject contains:
Random variables: discrete distributions (binomial, pisson, hypergeometric), continuous distributions
(uniform, exponential, gamma, beta, chi-square, t-student, F).
Statistical Inference: sampling, statistical estimation (punctual and by intervals), hypothesis tests.
Experiment Designs: Goodness Tests of Adjustment to Normal. Homogeneity Tests of
Variations
Random Complete Block Design (D.B.C.A.). Concepts Methodology. Applications. Test of
comparison of sample means.
Nonlinear and Multiple Regression Model.
Time Series. Trend Analysis. Cyclic Variation Seasonal variation. Irregular variation.
/
GENERAL ECONOMY
Proportional to students the basic concepts of economics formalizing them with microeconomics and
macroeconomics, in order that the understanding of economic activities, variables and
economic indicators be an instrument of analysis to understand and understand microeconomics and
macroeconomics, as well as identifying a methodology for its analysis.
The subject contains:
Introduction - The Economy - Global Framework - Microeconomics - Macroeconomics - Finance - Development
Economic - International Commerce
/
DIGITAL CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS
Electronics / Electronic Components.
Measuring Instruments / Electrical Circuits / Sources.
Boolean algebra, Logic gates, Combinational circuits, Sequential circuits, Circuits
sequential integrated circuit: registers, counters, MSI circuits. Arithmetic circuits, Devices
of memories, Introduction to the computer.
/
COST ACCOUNTING
Fundamental concepts of Cost Accounting.
- Costs in Accounting and Costs in Economy.
- Direct and Variable Costing.
- Cost Accounting Cycle.
- Analytical Accounting of Exploitation
- Accounting and Materials Control.
- Accounting and Control of Direct Labor.
/
Informatic RIGHT
Legal Generalities, Guarantees to private investment. Legal forms of business activity. He
individual entrepreneur. The corporate law. Securities and securities. Legal norm and free competition. The system
tax. Constitutional regime of taxes The income tax. Tax on the sales. Legislation
labor.
Computer Law and Digital Law.
Legal Protection of material and intangible assets.
Copyright. IT contracts and electronic contracting. Cybercrime. The
Taxation and computing. Computer Ethics
/
PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE II
Introduction to relational database management (RDBM).
Client server applications: Database Management through GUI.
Database Management Web Application.
Development and Consumption of Web Services
Integral Application Project
/
ORGANIZATIONAL SYSTEMS
The contents of the subject are Organizational Framework; Systems theory and organization; Systems
of Planning; Organization Systems; Information system; Procedures manual; System
Psychosocial; Control system.
/
OPERATIONS RESEARCH
Mathematical models and systems.
Solution of linear programming models and sensitivity analysis.
Group decision making.
Dynamic programming
Graph and network models.
/
MARKETING
The subject is part of the commercial area, theoretical and practical, oriented to develop in the
creativity and innovation student with a vision of the future and
enable it to study and evaluate the variables of the environment, developing competitive strategies in the
market; for this, the learning units are listed
which will allow you to evaluate them:
Develop the following learning units:
The consumer and the market in which it interacts.
The variables of marketing.
Determination of sales prices.
The distribution, communication and controls of commercial action.
/
COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE AND OPERATING SYSTEMS
Develop the following learning units:
Unit 1: Concepts and theoretical foundations of Computer and Network Architecture. Basic Structure
of a computer.
Microprocessor Architecture.
Structure of the Operating Systems
Processor Administration.
Memory Administration.
Organization and Administration of Memory.
Organization and administration of Entry / Exit.
Distributed Operating Systems.
/
INVESTIGATION METHODOLOGY
Introduction to the course, the role of thinking and research, Reality in which we do research,
Scientific, technological research, ortos. Methods and Methodologies, The problem; Identify, Name,
Formulate, Justification. The reference framework or comparative pattern of an Investigation, Techniques for
present the theoretical framework, How to define the objectives of a scientific investigation, The Hypothesis of a
Scientific research, factors and variables of a Scientific Research, The design of research,
Techniques to present the Bibliography.
/
ANALYSIS OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS
This subject is aimed at providing the student with the knowledge and methodologies
Basics for the analysis of computer systems in private or state-owned companies, allowing you
develop their intellectual and cognitive skills related to the development of the Systems.
This course includes the study of software development methodologies concepts (Process
Unified Software Development - RUP, Métrica V3, Constructionist design methodology - CDM, Agile
Unified Process - AUP, etc.) and the use of modeling tools, code generation, testing
/
CYBER AND CONTROL THEORY
Curricular component of practical theoretical nature oriented to publicize the fundamentals of the
Cybernetics and control theory:
Its content is: Basic notions of cybernetics; Logical theory; Biophysical theory; Analog theory: The theory
of control.
/
DISCRETE SIMULATION
Introduction to Modeling and Simulation.
Discrete Process Simulation (Networks)
Control of a model.
Advanced topics in discrete process simulation.
Logical operations and decision rules.
Introduction to the statistical aspects of the simulation.
Process modeling with user insertions.
Discrete Simulation by Events.
/
COMPUTER NETWORKS I
Data communication standards.
Connectivity Technologies Local Area Networks vs. Broadband networks.
Wireless data communication standards and Security.
Integration of computer solutions.
/
LOGISTICS AND PRODUCTION
Logistics Administration and Purchasing Function
Warehouse Management and Inventory Control
Models of Computer Integration and application in national and international Logistics.
Purchases in government organizations - Law on
Acquisitions and Contracting of the State.
/
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
The subject contains: Software engineering, software process, software process models,
methodologies inherent in software development, Software project management, planning and
project scheduling, measurements, metrics and indicators, software requirements, functional and
non-functional, user and system requirements. Analysis modeling, functional modeling and
information flow modeling, data design, architectural design, graphic interface design
Username. Software quality assurance, Software testing techniques, Software testing techniques
software, Software test strategies, Software maintenance and configuration management.
/
REQUIREMENTS ENGINEERING
Introduction to Requirements Engineering
Fundamentals of software requirements.
The requirements process
The techniques of Business Modeling and Specification of Use Cases
Elicitation of Requirements
Acquisition of requirements
Requirements Analysis
Requirements Specification
Documentation and specification of requirements
Requirements specification tools
Validation and Requirements Management
Requirements Validation
Requirements Management
/
DYNAMIC OF SYSTEMS
Introduction, resource input, output and result, program and mission components, models
Mathematicians in the social sciences, model and decision making, mental models and formal models,
models in social systems, sensitivity of social systems, dynamic system, elements and
relationships, causal diagrams feedback loop classes, forrester diagram, levels, variables
of flow, auxiliary variables, elementary structures, first order systems, first order systems
with positive power, second order systems.
/
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
The subject is oriented to give the knowledge of models that allow us to reproduce the form of
human reasoning to apply it in solving real problems, through software development
applicable
The content of the subject is:
Representation of knowledge. - Smart Agents. - Expert systems. - Expert systems and bases
of data - Artificial intelligence techniques: Neural Networks, Diffuse Logic, Robotics.
/
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
Management Models: Strategic, Technology, Marketing, Supply, Operations,
Finance, Human Resources, Project Management.
Business Support Systems: ERP, SCM, CRM, eBusiness, BSC, BI.
Business Intelligence Systems: DataWarehouse, Datamart, Scorecards, Data systems
Enrichment The Balanced Scorecard.
DataWarehouse modeling, architectures and concepts of ETL storage and deployment of
information.
Data Mining: Fundamentals, Classification Models, Regression Models, Association Models,
Grouping models.
Presentation of the prototype of the Business Intelligence System project developed.
/
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
Distributed, able to meet the needs of an organization to support development of
distributed applications based on emerging technologies.
The contents of the course are divided into five thematic units:
Fundamentals of Distributed Systems: Concept, transparency, taxonomy, client-server model,
peer-to-peer model.
Communication in Distributed Systems: RPC, RMI, OMA Architecture, CORBA, DCOM. Processes,
Synchronization. File System. Consistency and Replication Fault tolerance, Security.
Frameworks for distributed application development.
Middleware technology.
New paradigms in distributed computing: Web Services, Mobile Agents Technology.
/
INFORMATIC SECURITY
Identification and Authentication Techniques.
Network and Communications Security.
Application level security.
Security at Operations level.
Attack Control
Security Administration
/
BUSINESS UNDERTAKING AND SIMULATION
Introduction to the entrepreneurial process
Business model: where are the keys to success?
The business plan: the cover letter
Financing
Legal aspects
Initiation of activities
Optimizing working capital
Management for people
/

