COMMUNICATION
It is a subject of general and humanistic training, It is practical theoretical.
It is oriented to provide knowledge about language and develop in the student
their communicative and linguistic competences, in order to achieve proper management
of their mother tongue Therefore, it prioritizes the development of the capacities of
reading comprehension, the use of language regulations, oral expression, writing and
the production of texts of various kinds, mainly academic.
/
METHODOLOGY OF UNIVERSITY HIGHER STUDIES
The subject is practical theoretical in nature. It has the purpose of developing in
students epistemology, logic and methodology as the basis for the realization of
university studies within the holistic educational approach, training it in the
knowledge and mastery of study techniques and substantive learning to improve their
academic performance. The development of the subject includes the realization of a
research protocol and a monograph on specialty topics
/
BASIC MATHEMATICS
The subject of Basic Mathematics is mandatory and is intended to develop
some general math skills in students of the National University
de Piura, through teaching-learning activities related to the topics:
Introduction to Mathematical Logic; Sets, Partitions. Theory Real Numbers,
Equations and Inequations, Mathematical Induction, Matrices and Determinants, Relationships
and Functions, which will support the study of the inherent subjects
to each race.
/
OFFICE TOOLS FOR UNIVERSITY LIFE
The workshop is aimed at providing the student who starts university studies,
theoretical and practical knowledge for handling the word processor, the sheet
Calculation, slide show and interaction tools over the internet.
/
SPORT ACTIVITY
The Workshop is oriented to the development and strengthening of physical and mental qualities
of the student, thus contributing to his integral formation, that is, with his practice
they promote creative and intellectual movements, the manifestation of corporeality to
through higher order cognitive processes. It includes recreational activities,
recreational, sports and physical exercises.
/
ANALYTIC GEOMETRY
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical. Be
proposes to direct students towards knowledge of analytical geometry
as a training course, imparting new and important knowledge
38
Mathematicians It includes: Coordinate systems, graphs of equations and places
geometric Conical Coordinate transformations. The Euclidean space,
surfaces and volumes. Applications in engineering problems and related branches.
/
ALGORITHMS
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to teach students to face problems through the elaboration
of a sequence of steps that lead to its solution; fully and clearly identifying
the objective to pursue, the starting point and the steps that must be taken to achieve
said goal.
It includes: techniques of logical diagramming, study and application of structures
control logics (sequence, selection and repetition), main operations with
arrangements, subroutine management (functions and procedures) and recursion.
/
INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER ENGINEERING
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical.
It is proposed to present to the incoming students a panoramic vision of the career of
Informatics Engineering.
He will expose himself about the history of computer science and computer science, explaining in a way
general about its operation and structure.
A tour of the most important topics, aspects and areas of the different courses
they must carry in the race, and the professional projections of a computer scientist.
/
BIOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
It is a practical theoretical course and its purpose is to achieve in the student the
acquisition of attitudes and values oriented to the care of the environment from the
knowledge of living beings and their link to the natural environment.
/
GENERAL CHEMISTRY
It is a compulsory theoretical and practical course and its purpose is to give
basic principles for the student to handle a fundamental tool that
allow to develop and understand the characteristics, composition and laws
/
PHYSICAL CONCEPTION OF THE UNIVERSE
The course of Physical Conception of the Universe is intended to provide the student
knowledge in the field of physics that are necessary for their professional training.
The course is basic and important for the basic understanding of progress
prodigious in current technology, applicable to almost all branches of knowledge. In this grade
The theoretical foundations of Physical Sciences are taught. Understand within your
I develop the topics of: Vectors, Static, Kinematic, Dynamics and Fluid Mechanics.
/
PHILOSOPHY AND ETHICS
The subject is theoretical in nature and is intended to assess the foundation and
importance of philosophy in its integral formation as a professional future for
contribute from philosophy to the understanding of the main human problems,
especially those linked to the formation of human values and principles
related to ethics and morality. It also encourages students to adopt
attitudes and values to put them into practice in different spaces and moments of their
personal and community life.
/
DISCRETE STRUCTURES
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to provide the basic mathematical concepts for the understanding of
computer science and publicize the basic tools of analyzing
algorithms
It includes: Sets, relationships, graphs and trees. Finite state machines and
Languages, Groups.
/
CALCULUS I
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to initiate students in the notions of infinitesimal calculus in order to
prepare them for the study of mathematical analysis and enable further understanding
of the subjects of his specialty.
It includes: Limits, derivatives, differentials. Indefinite integral, definite integral.
Functions of several variables. Applications in engineering problems and related branches.
/
PROGRAMMING I
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to teach the use of a programming language in which the
Basics of Object Oriented Programming.
It includes: Use of classes, inheritance, polymorphism.
/
NATIONAL AND REGIONAL REALITY
The subject corresponds to the general training of all professional careers, it is
theoretical in nature and aims to develop a comprehensive view of the problems
social issues of contemporary Peru analyzing aspects related to
ecological, population, economic, social, political and cultural, emphasizing the
determinants of regional and national change and development.
/
GENERAL ECONOMY
The general purpose of the subject is to provide the student with a training
basic disciplinary of the economy, which allows to address current problems of a
modern society, as the analysis and interpretation of the various scenarios for the
decision making at the microeconomic and macroeconomic level. Familiarize the student with
the field of economics and economic analysis: it deals with the basic topics and
Fundamentals of economic theory. It's about consumer behavior, the
producer behavior, market situations and their types, and the
behavior of macroeconomic aggregates and fiscal and monetary policy in
scenario of a closed economy and an open economy.
/
ART STUDIO
The subject aims to develop the aesthetic sensibility of the student in
what concerns the expression and artistic appreciation.
It includes the elements that make up the drawing, painting, modeling and reading
of visual images.
/
ADMINISTRATION
The subject belongs to the curricular area of general training, is theoretical-practical and
Its purpose is to develop a systemic vision of the Administration in
public and private organizations.
It develops the following learning units: 1. Theoretical approaches of the
administration, scenarios, interest groups and corporate responsibility. 2. The
administration as science, importance and roles of the company in the current context. 3.
The company as an intelligent organization. 4. Strategic vision of the company.
/
PROGRAMMING II
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to teach the use of a programming language in which the
advanced concepts of Object Oriented Programming.
It includes: Graphic interface programming, multitasking programming. Introduction
to file management. Introduction to Web programming
/
CALCULUS II
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to train the student in the management of derivatives of several variables, as well
as multiple integrals, giving such structures a geometric interpretation.
It includes: Derivation in vector analysis, partial derivatives. Multiple integrals,
curvilinear and surface. Functions of complex variables. Applications in trouble
of engineering and related branches. Use of software for mathematical applications.
/
PHYSICS I
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to know the basic components of the subject and their mutual interactions
to then be able to explain the properties of matter and the phenomena that
We observe in nature. Perform experiments in which measurements are obtained
numerical physical quantities so that they can be compared with the values
Numeric predicted by the theory.
It includes: Mechanical, static, kinematic, translational and rotation dynamics,
simple pendulum. Work and energy, temperature and heat. Applications in problems of
engineering and related branches.
/
GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY
Subject of theoretical-practical nature, with an experiential perspective and
applied to the essence of each profession. Its purpose is to describe and explain the features
hallmarks of the human being in the cognitive, emotional motivational and social areas;
using for this the own methods of science; as well as specify, through the
research the personality components in relation to theoretical approaches
contemporaries that support them. 
/
INTRODUCTION TO ACCOUNTING
Subject of theoretical nature - practice. Its purpose is to provide a
general orientation of the accounting theory of the main operations, for registration
in the accounting books of economic entities, applying the principles and norms
of accounting It also guides the preparation of the Basic Financial Statements of
Commercial Accounting, as fundamental instruments for decision making,
consolidating in the student the constructive critical attitude, teamwork, creativity
and application of axiological values
/
ACTIVIDAD DE RESPONSABILIDAD UNIVERSITARIA
Esta asignatura es de naturaleza práctica y tiene como propósito que el estudiante
conozca y ejecute los lineamientos básicos y la metodología propia de los proyectos
sociales desde un enfoque comunicativo estratégico y de desarrollo sostenible.
/
GENERAL STATISTICS
Its purpose is to use the appropriate statistical tools for the purpose
that the student in a learning process obtain the necessary knowledge
to organize and analyze statistical information to form situation decisions
real in your professional environment.
/
LINEAR ALGEBRA
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to prepare the student for the study of advanced engineering courses such as
operations research, as well as note the importance of linear algebra for
Any branch of engineering.
It includes: Systems of linear equations and matrices. Vectors, dependency e
Linear vector independence, vector spaces. Linear transformations.
Own values. Quadratic form. Applications in engineering problems and branches
related. Use of matrix software.
/
PHYSICS II
The subject corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical -
practical. It is proposed to express Maxwell's laws mathematically and verbally,
solve simple application problems and their importance in engineering. Perform
Measurements of electrical current parameters with instruments. Explain the
theoretical principles that govern the operation of electric machines.
It includes: Electrostatics, electric field, electric potential, capacitors and
dielectrics Electric currents and DC circuits. Magnetic field,
magnetic induction. Alternating current. Magnetism of matter. Electrical engineering.
Applications in engineering problems and related branches.
/
BUSINESS PROCESS ENGINEERING
The subject is of the specialty and is developed with a theoretical-practical approach, and has
as a purpose to train and train the student in the management of business processes.
In the first part the essential concepts of the processes are studied. Then apply
the systemic vision for process management. As for the practical nature, it is done
a modeling of current business processes in the organization, to then raise the
improvement of these processes through the application of ICTs (technologies of
information and communication).
/
DATA STRUCTURE
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to study different models of data structures as types of data
abstracts, and implement data structures in a high programming language
level. Also, apply these models to real-life situations, performing the
respective simulations.
It includes: Single, double and circular linked lists, piles and tails. Trees
/
ENGLISH I
Know and master the basic grammar of the English language, in readings for its translation and
Interpretation and elaborate sentences and sentences to communicate.
Develop the following topics: Introduction, present simple of be, personal pronouns,
possessive adjectives, present simple have, telling the time, froquency adverbs, urban
places, Ordinal Numbers Sports and pastimes, Can / Can not for, Past simple to be, Regular
and irregular verbs, past time technology, comparative adjectives Going to, Work and jobs,
Work conditions, superlative adjectives, Will / will not, Dreams and ambitions, present
perfect, simple reading comprehension exercises, Speaking and listening exercises.
/
DISABILITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
The subject is theoretical in nature - practical, sequential and semi-annual. Be
develops with seminars, activities and awareness workshops in order to take
awareness that all people have rights to be considered with equal
opportunities Its purpose is to develop in the student the ability to
understand and value the social conception of human rights and disability
stop guaranteeing the universal exercise of rights
/
CALCULUS III
The course corresponds to the area of Basic Sciences being theoretical - practical.It is proposed to develop special functions and differential equations and theirEngineering applicationIt includes: Differential equations of first order and higher degree. System ofordinary differential equations. Complex variable. Laplace transforms, seriesFourier, functions and special polynomials. Applications in engineering problems andrelated branches. Use of software for mathematical applications.
/
ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS
The course corresponds to the area of electronics being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to provide the student with basic knowledge of the components
electrical and electronic and its operation as part of circuits.
Understands:
Electric components. Kirchof laws. Circuit study Diodes, and transistors,
integrated circuits. Circuit Behavior
/
DATA MODELING
This is a theoretical and practical course.
It aims to train the computer engineering student in the knowledge of
concepts concerning data modeling as abstraction tools that
allow to represent reality, capturing its semantics
/
SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND DESIGN I
The course is theoretical-practical in nature. In it, the fundamental concepts are explained
of information systems and their life cycle. Also, the different types of
information systems that exist within organizations. Also explained
and apply the unified modeling language (UML) to develop case models of
use, class diagrams and state diagrams of information systems.
/
NATIONAL DEFENSE
It is a subject of a theoretical-practical nature, whose purpose is to evaluate the concepts
theoretical, doctrinal and legal aspects, as well as the different issues that allow the
effective knowledge of National Security and Defense, The subject is organized in
Three thematic units: Introduction to National Defense, Geopolitics and Defense
National, and National Reality and State media
/
ENGLISH II
Know and use English to communicate with ownership and fluency at the elementary level
and develops skills and abilities to produce and understand written and oral texts.
Develop the following topics: Introduction, present, continuous, past simple,
continuous, regular and irregular life stages, present perfect vs past simple, Jobs and
services modal, verbs can can't / should-shouldn't predictions will, may, might, Sciencie
and research. The ing form & to + infinitive countable and uncountable nouns,
conditionals, modal verbs: must, can't, may, might, conditionals, compounds of some, any
and no, money verbs money nouns, advertising, Passive voice (1); present simple, passive
voice (2): reported speech; tell, adjectives that describe personality, entertainment,
modal verbs, used to.
/
SCIENTIFIC DRAFTING WORKSHOP
Workshop aimed at enhancing the student's abilities and abilities
academic communication and scientific research. Its purpose is the writing
of reports and research articles.
Its contents are: The investigation. Types of research. The investigation report.
The scientific article The scientific journals. The main sections of the article
scientific. The scientific writing.
/
COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed that the student recognize and explain the logical functioning of the
basic components of a computer, applying digital theory, oriented to its design
final.
It includes: Numbering systems and codes. Design of combinational circuits and
sequential Data coding Transfer language Design of a
basic computer Introduction to the 8086 microprocessor.
/
DATABASE
The course is theoretical-practical in nature. It explains the organization of the bases of
relational data in the different database administration systems
existing today. The data definition language is also explained and applied
for the creation of databases and their objects in the Microsoft SQL Server SABD, and the
data manipulation language to query and update the data.
/
SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND DESIGN II
This is a theoretical and practical course. Contributes to the achievement of specific competence
Designing information system processes and leading to software development
with quality. The topics that the course addresses are concepts and principles of design such as:
process design, system design, structured design, architectural design,
Component level design, User Interface Design, Design Based on
Patterns Effective Output Design, Webapps Design
/
VISUAL PROGRAMMING
The Visual Programming Subject is of a theoretical-practical and obligatory nature; have
as a purpose to develop in the students competencies in the analysis and coding
algorithms of computer problems using a high programming language
level. This course will provide all the basic tools to start in the
Visual Basic .NET programming language, as well as in Programming
Object Oriented
/
DATA BASE ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM
This is a theoretical-practical subject, with a greater practical content, being its
purpose to analyze, evaluate, develop and administer the base management systems of
Relational data according to the requirements of the organization, considering the
ACID features: atomicity, insulation, consistency and durability as well as
tools to solve common problems of the administration of the useful life of
the data.
They will also know how to plan, create and optimize user privileges, indexes, implement
data integrity through the use of constraints, triggers, cursors and schemas
XML, implement views, stored procedures and functions.
Character set and collations of the database and connection.
/
RESEARCH DESIGN FOR ENGINEERING
The course corresponds to the Research area being theoretical.
It is proposed to teach the theory and designs of scientific research oriented to the task
of the engineer, that allows to make use of the appropriate technique in his tasks of
research, reporting and professional practice.
It includes: Logic of knowledge, general mode of production. Methods, techniques,
types and levels of research. Research processes: problem, approach,
theoretical framework, hypothesis. Statistical techniques of data collection, analysis and
interpretation. Sampling and design of experiments. Fieldwork and Processing
of information. Presentation of results, technical reports and research papers.
Use of software
/
OPERATIONS RESEARCH
The course is theoretical - practical. It is proposed to analyze, propose and apply the
adequate techniques to solve administrative problems, technical partners and
engineering using mathematical models, making a correct interpretation and
discussion of the results obtained.
It includes: Mathematical models of linear programming. Assignment problems and
transport. Dynamic programming Markov chains and processes. Decision theory
and games Use of appropriate software.
/
OPERATING SYSTEMS
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to provide an introduction to the concepts, structure and mechanisms of
operation of operating systems; as well as present the basics of
Design of operating systems.
Understands:
Functions, evolution and types of operating systems. Study of the processes, their states,
planning, concurrence, communication between processes. Administration and management of the
memory, input / output and file systems. System calls Driving
of interruptions
/
NETWORKS
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical-practical.
Upon completion of the course, the student will be able to demonstrate that: Identify the
data networks and communication protocols currently existing and widely
used in commerce, industry and homes. Analyze data networks, your
implementation, and communication protocols according to the layer models and
hierarchical models. Recognize transport systems independent of the physical environment,
such as TCP / IP and Internet operation. Design, model and implement networks of
Internet-based data and applications.
/
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Provides the student with knowledge about IT infrastructure and
contemporary emerging technologies that can be applied in business to
get the information that managers of different levels require in making
decisions. These technologies encompass integrated information systems, commerce
electronic, knowledge management and business intelligence. About these
technologies are presented case studies to reinforce the knowledge acquired.
/
MICROECONOMICS
The course corresponds to the complementary area being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to provide the basic knowledge related to the economy of the
company, as a fundamental tool for decision making. So too
identify the economic and financial variables for through the administrative process
prospect scenarios and make decisions aimed at increasing productivity
business.
It includes: Economic systems, types and needs. Price determination. Theory
of the consumer Product markets Market of production factors.
/
ORGANIZATION AND COMPUTER ADMINISTRATION
The way in which the computer-based organization is usually of great importance will be studied.
importance for business success.
We will study how to direct the IT staff towards the achievement of the
institutional goals
Cases that allow the student to take full knowledge of how it is will be analyzed.
that is given the computer headquarters, aimed at achieving the objectives.
The management of computer services in the Organization will be studied to achieve
objectives and goals of the area and the institution.
The student will be trained so that he can carry out adequate technology planning
of information within the organization
/
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
In this subject the basic concepts of Software Engineering are studied and applied
to analyze, design and develop software products, proposing the platform
technology, as well as software development methodologies,
including the specification of requirements, the analysis and the design, the tests, the
configuration, maintenance and documentation for building systems
informatics under the object-oriented paradigm.
/
Computer Law
The course corresponds to the complementary area being theoretical.
It is proposed to introduce the student to the world of law and its connection with the
Computer engineering development.
It includes: Basic knowledge of Law. Peruvian and international legislation
on Computer Law. Free software. Personal data protection. Classification
of software licenses and intellectual property. Social and professional aspects.
Ethics, deontology, responsibilities and other legislation applicable to the exercise
professional. Commercial and Tax Law and its direct application in the field of
Computing.
/
SECURITY OF THE INFORMATION
The subject corresponds to the area of Specialized Training, being of a theoretical nature
Practical. Its purpose is to provide the student with cognitive and technical resources
instrumentals that allow you to know the principles for planning and implementing the
computer security in any type of organization and guarantee its normal
functioning.
It comprises seven thematic units: (1) Basic Security Tools and Concepts
Computing. (2) Cryptography. (3) Attack and Defense Techniques and Tools. (4)
Malware (5) Security of Operating Systems and Networks. (6) Web and Mobile Security. (7)
Incident response and Threat Intelligence
/
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES
The subject is developed with a theoretical-practical approach, and has as its purpose
train and train the program participant in the application of the principles, the
features, phases and workflows of the Unified Software Development Process and
the unified modeling language in the development of information systems
organizational. In addition, the importance of business process management is studied.
/
METHODOLOGY FOR THE RESEARCH PROJECT
The course is theoretical-practical in nature, has been structured to prepare the
student in the competencies inherent in the research execution process
scientific and can successfully complete the thesis project. The content
The course consists of knowing the various stages of the scientific research process,
execute the realization of the research project, starting with the choice of the topic,
problem formulation, objectives, elaboration of the theoretical framework, background of the
Research, hypothesis, research methodology.
/
TECHNOLOGY AND WEB DEVELOPMENT
The course corresponds to the Dynamic Web Applications Developer area, being
theoretical - practical character. It is proposed to develop in students the skills
necessary to develop management applications for medium and large companies,
making extensive use of the open standards used on the web. Centralizing the
software to facilitate maintenance and updating of large
systems, use the appropriate technologies to implement the software on the side of the
client and on the server side, making the most of the capabilities created by the
web technology
/
COMPUTER CONTROL AND AUDIT SYSTEM
The course has a theoretical-practical approach that develops the theory of design and
implementation of controls in the field of computing. It also provides the
audit basics for the evaluation of controls. The whole course is focused
considering the legal framework and the standards associated with the ICT field.
It includes (1) Internal control system (2) Fundamentals of computer auditing (3)
Standard technical standards (4).
/
DEVELOPMENT OF COMPUTER RESEARCH
The course has a theoretical-practical approach, will train the student in the competitions
inherent in the project execution process initiated in the Thesis Project course. He
course contains: Phase of use of computer tools that allows you to gather,
manipulate information and have the corresponding literature, development phase of
Project: Development of your selected objectives and methods, processing phase of
Data: Present and analyze your data and obtain the results, final report phase:
Presentation and oral defense of your project
/
TECHNOLOGY AND MOBILE DEVELOPMENT
The course is theoretical and practical in nature and is intended to provide the student with
theoretical and practical basis to implement customized and customized software solutions
of the company, using Mobile technologies and development platforms.
/
SYSTEMS ORIENTED TO SERVICES
The course is theoretical-practical in nature and is intended to provide students
the conceptual framework of conceiving systems and applications oriented to services
(business), within the modern conception of strengthening the resources of
Information Technology (IT), which should be aimed at providing more systems
flexible, high availability for the entire organization that allows integration and
communication between them to support business processes improving agility
business. Provide a conceptual framework to work under an Architecture
service oriented considering the different business systems, processes of
business and IT infrastructure. Implement web services that use different
protocols and standards that allow data exchange between applications. Define the
ability to guide business processes, people and the effective and equitable use of
resources to implement SOA in the organization.
/
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
The course will allow students to know the use of the Intelligence tools of
Business as they are: tools to extract, load and transform all data
stored in a data warehouse, data from internal and external sources
that relate to the organization. It will be applied on the data tool
warehouse other tools such as multidimensional data analysis, dashboard
control and data mining, for the exploitation of data and creation of new
knowledge that strategically supports the decision making process.
/
IT MANAGEMENT
develop a diagnosis and analysis of the information management processes within
the organizations. So also study and select the management computer system
appropriate to each organization and finally build a simple dashboard that
can support the strategic process and decision making within the company
/
ACCOUNTING OF COSTS AND BUDGETS
It is a theoretical subject whose purpose is to acquire basic knowledge of the
cost accounting, know how to prepare the production cost statements, distinguishing
variable and fixed costs. In addition to understanding the nature, administrative use and
importance of costs in the planning, management, evaluation and control of
Business. The concept of budget, objective content, parts, development and use of
same.
/
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS
is intended to teach students the
Management of Windows and Linux operating environments in both graphical and
console.
Contains: (1) Windows and Linux operating system (2) Graphic and console environments (3)
Shell: Graphic and console (4) Programming languages: C and Phyton. (5) Spreadsheet.
/
ADVANCED APPLICATIONS WITH CALCULATION SHEET
is intended to provide students
the knowledge necessary for the advanced management of a spreadsheet and
develop computer projects with a high degree of complexity. Within their
contents we have: Management of advanced information functions, tools
Statistical analysis, Solver management, data access and database queries, cubes
OLAP, macros and Visual Basic programming for applications and XLM.
/
BUSINESS LOGISTICS
is intended to develop in the student
cognitive and operational skills that determine the possibilities of being able to
interpret an organizational or market reality regarding the distribution of their
products to the market so that the logistics applied are adequate.
So also form feasible solutions through research.
Content: (1) Business logistics and supply chain (2) Strategy and
logistics planning in the supply chain (3) The product of logistics and
supply chain (4) The value chain and logistics supply
/
COMPILER THEORY
The subject corresponds to the area of Specialized Training, being theoretical.
It is proposed to publicize the purpose, organization and construction of the
compilers, so that students can develop a simple compiler
based on the definition of a grammar.
It includes: (1) Lexical and syntactic analysis. (2) Type checking (3) Generation of
intermediate and machine code (4) Code optimization.
/
GRAPHICS BY COMPUTERS
is intended to provide students with the mathematical concepts that they
allow to design the basic algorithms for the generation of a graphic scene by
computers. So also make use of the intrinsic functions of a language of
programming and external libraries such as OpenGL to draw lines,
polygons, surfaces or three-dimensional objects. It comprises 4 units: (1) Primitives
output (2) 2D geometric transformations (3) 3D geometric transformations (4)
/
ALGORITHM ANALYSIS
is intended to provide students with the necessary tools
to select and evaluate algorithms taking into account efficiency, time of
execution and resource consumption.
The subject is composed of seven units that comprise elementary algorithm,
asymptotic notation, algorithm analysis, voracious algorithms, divide and conquer,
Dynamic programming and graph exploration.
/
MULTIMEDIA PROGRAMMING
is intended to provide a training experience in planning,
design, production and evaluation of hypermedia applications.
It contains: (1) Multimedia, hypertext, hypermedia and multimedia systems definitions.
(2) Multimedia Processes, Authoring Processes and the Media (3) Application Design
multimedia using software such as: Illustrator and Photoshop, Flash. (4) Designs of
Applications using programming languages.
/
SIMULATION AND GAMES
The scientific development of the Business Administration has evolved to the point that it is capable
to provide tools to improve the learning process of both
manager as of the organization, through transitional objects such as
Computer games.
This is the design, development and application of computer simulators that, of
playful way, they allow the learning of the structure and dynamics of an organization.
In this sense it is a subject that allows to integrate multiple concepts
studied in various subjects throughout the administrator's training.
/
MICROCOMPUTERS
The course corresponds to the area of the specialty being theoretical - practical.
It is proposed to study the fundamental characteristics of microprocessors,
taking as model the 8086, in relation to its internal architecture, its
operation and its relationship with the elements that must accompany it in a
microcomputer, for which it will venture into the Assembler language as a
Tool for handling. Also, we will study the mechanisms that
they incorporate the processors that are currently being manufactured to increase their
performance, memory bandwidth, take advantage of parallelism at the level of
instruction (segmentation, parallel channels) and dynamic code planning
(execution out of order), as well as planning software techniques.
/
MICROBOTS PROGRAMMING
The subject corresponds to the area of Specialized Training, being of a Theoretical and Practical nature and is intended to provide the student with a set of knowledge
basic that allows you to develop a project in the figure of a microbot, govern everything
type of sensors and actuators through microcontrollers, adapted to the environment,
features and tasks of specific microbots. It comprises 4 units: (1) Introduction
and basic mobile robotics (2) Sumo robot (3) Mobile robot and cleaning (4) Mobile robot type
worbots.
/
DIGITAL TREATMENT OF IMAGES AND AUDIO
The subject corresponds to the area of Specialized Training, being of a Theoretical and Practical nature. The course aims to provide students with the basic concepts that allow them
study and analyze the main algorithms for digital image processing, to
then carry out its implementation during the laboratory sessions. In addition there will be a
Introduction to digitized sound and its treatment. It comprises 4 units: (1)
Point-oriented operations (2) Operations and image transformation (3)
Region-oriented operations (4) Digital sound operations.
/
SCADA SYSTEMS
This course presents the study of the Supervision and Acquisition Control system
of Data (SCADA) and the main Industrial Networks, which is of fundamental importance
so that the industry has systems and organizations that allow supervision
in real time of its production and transport processes.
The course will offer students knowledge about advanced technologies of
automation that includes the concept of SCADA (Control and Acquisition Supervision
of Data), and PLC (Programmable Logic Controller).
/



