ACADEMIC WRITING
ACADEMIC WRITING
/
DATABASE ADMINISTRATION
Currently with the growth of information storage needs,
It is extremely important to be trained in techniques and methods that allow the administration of
databases correctly focusing on the strategies that can be applied in
any database engine having an overview of how to perform the management and
have the basis for a database audit line. This course gives us that
knowledge necessary to manage information in companies
/
NETWORK ADMINISTRATION
The course develops the basic concepts of infrastructure and management of much needed Data Centers
for project development courses as well as to have information management
in large projects in his professional life
/
ADVERTISING MANAGEMENT
The Advertising Management course of the Strategic Marketing mention focuses on management
strategic of offline and online advertising to strengthen the positioning of brands,
products and services in order to attract and retain the consumer in the search to generate
Branding and commercial results that maximize revenue to companies.
Today with the development of the internet, 360 ° marketing campaigns involve a
understanding of the multichannel integration of the media and the contact points of the
consumer to develop advertising strategies that generate engagement and with high reach
at the hearings to ensure the business results of the companies.
/
ERP SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
In the course, students learn the concepts, terminology and architecture of SAP security,
they will be able to solve security incidents and secure the application using
diagnostic and audit tools; may define, implement and manage models of
security of roles and profiles. This in turn is very useful in a professional because many companies
today they need staff who know how to manage security in their ERP
/
ALGORITHMS AND DATA STRUCTURES
The main tools used today to solve problems of
information processing and analysis in the industry, are nothing more than the combination of many
Algorithms and data structures; know the design and operation of these structures of
data help us develop and refine essential skills such as the ability to take
decisions based on quantitative data of the constructed components.
/
ANALYSIS AND DESIGN OF BUSINESS ARCHITECTURE
The course is based on the analysis of the current business architecture, information systems,
data and the technological infrastructure that support a company, so that they can propose
a portfolio of projects and piorize them. Teach how to identify problems, propose alternatives
of solution with the analysis and design of solutions in applications, data and technologies, aligned to
Business architecture The objective is to meet the needs of a company by solving
The problem (s) identified. Methodologies for the definition of these are reviewed
architectures, deepening the application of analysis, design and / or redesign of applications,
data and technological infrastructure, within the framework of Information Systems Design.
/
COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE AND OPERATING SYSTEMS
The course performs an exploration from digital mathematics and digital circuits to
main components of a computers architecture such as processor (CPU), memory,
buses, GPU, inputs and outputs (I / O). At the same time the system operation is established
operational and its integration with real memory, virtual memory, processes, file systems,
among others. As well as the various mathematical algorithms with which
these components work both hardware and software
/
LEGAL ASPECTS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
The course is based on the analysis of international and national legislation related to Technologies
of Information, the correct use and the duties and rights that the career carries. Also I know
will study practical and real cases in which the implication of laws and regulations will be evaluated
taking this to the best use of these.
/
BIOENGINEERING
Its purpose is to provide the future professional interdisciplinary links between the
Life sciences and engineering. In turn, it allows to know the fundamentals of algorithms
computational based on physiological systems and are currently highly
used in information systems, such as genetic Algorithms and Networks
artificial neural and also techniques of computational extraction of signals and images
medical In addition, principles of biomedical instrumentation that includes analysis will be studied
of analog circuits.
/
BUSINESS MARKETING STRATEGY
The purpose of this course is to develop the skill and experience in the formulation and
Marketing strategy planning in the current era. This course deepens the taking of
strategic decisions in companies at senior management level. In particular, the course brings together and
develops the competition Strategic Reasoning at Level 3 and Strategic Planning at Level
3, in addition to new market concepts in the digital era.
/
CALCULUS I
Calculation I is a general course for all engineering careers; theoretical and is dictated in
blended mode, is aimed at second cycle students, provides support
Mathematical to the student for the following subjects specific to each specialty, for such
reason the concepts of each topic are defined in a simple way, relating them to problems
Engineering related.
In this course the student will develop the general competence of quantitative reasoning, in
level 1, through the dimensions of: interpretation, representation, calculation, analysis and
communication or argumentation in simple problems of engineering contexts.
/
CALCULUS II
Through the dimensions, the student acquires the ability to interpret
alphanumeric data and sometimes represents them graphically, performs operations
mathematics showing precision in developments, use them as arguments for
support an idea or project, modeling real context problems that can be solved
by two or three methods of analysis, so that the student develops the ability to use the
Mathematics as engineering language and serve as a tool to solve problems
through the most direct and effective method, to draw conclusions and build arguments based
in valid results when emphasizing verbalization and descriptive problems in
real context Visualization, numerical and graphic experimentation and other approaches have
modified the way in which conceptual reasoning is learned.
/
QUALITY OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The course is based on applying quality concepts, standards and models to each stage of
information systems life cycle, particularly to planning, developing and using them. In each of
these stages there will be studied knowledge, tools and techniques which form the best practices
related to quality management.
/
UNDERSTANDING AND PRODUCTION OF LANGUAGE I
The course develops written communication competence, at level 1; that is, the student is
able to build consistent and solid messages that fit the situation and purpose
communicative. This development allows the generation and construction of new ideas, which is
relevant to your academic and professional life. The current information society and the
knowledge, characterized by disruption, innovation and complexity in the ways of
Technology-mediated communication, faces the student and the professional to new challenges
in the ways of communicating what he knows and builds.
/
ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETS
The accounting and budgeting course will provide the student with the concepts of information
Accounting and how it is used is in the decision making by managers.
At the beginning of the course the accounting information to study will refer to the financial statements and the
analysis of these for management decision making, the development of the
concepts of costs and will end with the analysis of the master budget.
/
CONTROL AND AUDIT IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS
This course will provide students of the Information Systems Engineering degree
concepts about systems auditing, what is the role of an auditor specialized in
Information technologies, what controls are relevant to review and what are the risks
Associates Additionally, it will allow to know the most used reference frames in the
organizations to perform an IT audit, as well as understand the importance of the audit
IT, as added value to the business.
/
SPORTS AND POLICY
Politics and sport is a general training course, of a theoretical nature, aimed at students of
Communications, International Business and Sports Business careers, as well as all
those that require a broad knowledge of culture, society and politics since the beginning of the century
XX to the present.
/
DESIGN THINKING
The Design Thinking course has been designed with the purpose of allowing the future graduate
develop empathy with the user and real knowledge of its needs for the
Obtaining a problem solution in a disruptive way, through exploration and identification
of the real needs of the user, the conception of the problem from their point of view and the
Development of constant prototypes to validate the solution. This course, line integrator
of Business Initiative
/
DIGITAL ANALYTICS
First we must be clear that business leaders compete to convert information
extracted from the data in significant results. Those most successful apply analysis throughout
your organization to make smarter decisions, act quickly and optimize
results.
Therefore in this course you will learn to analyze the data available from the online activity of
an organization, turn them into conclusions of value to the business, learn how to
Analysts describe, predict and report business decisions. You will know how to measure
effectively a website and take advantage of the different tools, understand the
metric differences
/
STRATEGIC ADDRESS
This course provides the student with the necessary training for the development of the first
stages of the strategic management process that consists of making advance decisions through
of the strategic planning methodology and the formulation of strategies for its
implantation. It will seek that students can make strategic diagnoses of both
organizational environment as of the organization itself with an optimal search, selection and
integration of information to design a business model that generates value, formulates
viable strategies and prioritize the implementation of strategies over time by
matrix and quantitative tools, closely relating the planning link and
control of the strategic management process.
/
DISABILITY AND INCLUSION
Disability and inclusion seeks to make the problems and challenges it demands visible to students
disability in our society, as future professionals who will have the responsibility
to innovate and manage inclusion policies. It is an elective course of general formation, of character
Theoretical-practical, aimed at students from fifth to seventh cycle of all careers. Search
develop the general skills of Citizenship and Critical Thinking.
/
DATABASE DESIGN
The specialization course in Database Design, in Computer Science careers
(CC), Software Engineering (ISW) and Information Systems Engineering (ISI), is of a character
theoretical-practical and is aimed at students in the fourth cycle for the three races
The knowledge acquired throughout the course is very important in the professional development of the
student since the management of information in database is one of the pillars in training,
Development and growth of any company in the market. This way they can be
participants in the development and implementation of the most important asset of a company such as its
Database.
/
DESIGN OF EXPERIMENTS IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The course covers the activities, techniques, tools and strategies of verification and
Software validation throughout the life cycle of developing an information system,
taking into account the specifications of the user requirements, the specifications
Functional, technical specifications and application of the most popular CASE tools
in the market. This knowledge is important for the student because it allows him to validate and
verify the SI projects both at the academic level today and in your professional life to
future.
/
ENTREPRENEURSHIP OF SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES FORMULATION
The purpose of the Sustainable Business Entrepreneurship course Formulation is to give the
student the necessary knowledge and tools to use when presented
a situation of undertaking a project or business. The reality in the labor market is that no
everyone ends up working for an established company, so they must be able to
generate disruptive business ideas. This course should motivate those students
Entrepreneurs the ability to start a business idea and succeed.
/
GAME DESIGN
The course will discuss various strategies for designing video games and prototypes of
fast way, in order for the student to be able to perform game mechanics that
meet the objectives of the game and optimize the production time of a video game through
of prototyping learning. This is useful for both career projects and their
professional performance in the world of video games.
/
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ENTREPRENEURSHIP impleme
It is a specialty course of the career and is theoretical and practical for the X cycle, has
The objective is to provide the student with the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills
allow the optimal development of an entrepreneurial project in the business scenario
current.
/
ENGLISH COMPOSITION I
ENGLISH COMPOSITION I
/
SPECIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS
Nowadays it is important to propose creative and innovative solutions to various problems
that meet specific needs, this is largely obtained by performing an analysis and
systematization of the requirements. Within the software development process, it should be
begin with the collection of user needs, as well as a diagnosis of the situation
Current business. This leads us to be able to describe prototypes or software models, project
a specific product and analyze risks before developing it, optimizing resources and time.
/
APPLIED STATISTICS I
The course is oriented to decision making about
the basis of descriptive statistics, probabilities and interval estimation. For this the student
must take into account relevant information that helps to draw conclusions and take
decisions. The course considers the use of scientific calculators, the Excel spreadsheet or others
Statistical packages as a support tool for data processing.
The course of applied statistics 1 is intended to provide the future engineering professional
a set of qualitative and quantitative information analysis tools for making
decisions in real career situations. The course contributes directly to developing
general powers of quantitative reasoning at a level 1.
/
NEGOTIATING STRATEGIES
Negotiation is a tool that is important to know and develop because the conflict is
is present in the different instances of relations with customers, suppliers,
partners, interest groups among others. The course has been designed to favor the learning of
negotiation techniques and strategies both through theoretical and practical classes that
develop cases of different conflict situations in which knowledge will be applied
provided in the theoretical classes. This dynamic will allow the student to develop their skills
analytical and communicational in situations of conflict.
/
ETHICS AND CITIZENSHIP
The course aims to contribute to the ethical and citizen learning of students by inviting them
to know and explain ethical problems and your daily life. Given that this course
It is done under the blended modality, various educational activities of type are proposed
individual and group, both in face-to-face sessions and in virtual sessions, which means
an active, organized and permanent participation by the students. The strategies to
used include: reading and discussion of texts, analysis and evaluation of films and documentaries,
resolution of cases, debates and exhibitions, virtual forums.
/
FINANCE AND ECONOMIC ENGINEERING
The course provides knowledge about the world of analysis, mathematical calculation and development of
Financial algorithms, therefore an integral vision of finance is developed. It will be introduced to
student in the field of modeling financial instruments, developing algorithms
that serve to create computer programs aimed at calculating mathematically, the
profitability indicators that allow you to function successfully in the very demanding System
International Financial
/
PHYSICS I
PHYSICS I
/
PHYSICS II
The course provides the support of physical concepts required by the engineering student, necessary
for subsequent subjects specific to each specialty. The purpose of the course is that the
student analyze, quantify physical magnitudes, develop strategies and basic skills
associated to the behavior of the fluid, the operation of thermodynamic systems and
electrical using the laws of Physics.
/
PHYSICS III
The course provides the support of physical concepts required by the engineering student, necessary
for subsequent subjects specific to each specialty. The purpose of the course is that the
student quantify physical quantities associated with the operation of systems
electromagnetic and optical using the laws of physics.
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF CYBER SECURITY
The course provides a global vision of security so that you become aware of the importance and
reality of the great opportunities and threats of digital transformation, as well as that
You can start research in specialties as essential as Ethical Hacking, the
Reverse engineering, cyberintelligence, digital forensic analysis and information auditing. This
course will be presented clearly, accessible by example and success stories.
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT IN ERP
In the course, he seeks to develop the skills of design and preparation of reports for the taking
of decisions in organizations at operational, tactical and strategic level using technology
SAP
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The subject has been designed so that students can learn to develop
Windows applications where data structures, search algorithms and
optimization, control of runtime and an information repository. This
knowledge is necessary for higher cycle projects and in turn for their performance
professional
/
FUNDAMENTALS IN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
Nowadays companies, and organizations in general, produce high volumes of
information as a result of its processes, which is not always used properly
to support the decision making process. This course will focus on the identification of
information exploitation opportunities based on datawarehouse solutions, and
data visualization tools, promoting with them, knowledge development and
the achievement of competitive advantages in organizations.
/
FUNDAMENTALS ON SECURITY AND AUDIT
The course also allows to know the fundamentals on risk management, oriented to the
information security and understand the principles of systems auditing in the sector
business to manage the protection of information and initiate processes in audit of
systems.
/
INFORMATION SYSTEMS / INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The knowledge acquired throughout the course is very important in the professional development of the
student since throughout his professional career he will develop his activities under the framework of
Project management may also be participants in the development and implementation of these.
/
INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT
The course is useful for the student who seeks to know and possess an integral vision of the role of the
CISO, includes the following key issues: Governance, Management, Audit, Projects, Technologies,
Operations, Strategy and Financing.
/
SERVICE MANAGEMENT I
The advancement of information technologies and the high dependence on them have the
organizations originate that the quality, opportunity and costs of technology services have
a vital importance for the business objectives of modern companies. Therefore, the course
Explains to students the fundamentals of IT Service Management, how this management influences
in achieving business objectives and, based on the ITIL process approach,
develops a model of the processes that an IT organization must carry out for management
efficient in the delivery and support of its services
/
IHC AND MOBILE TECHNOLOGIES
The course will help students understand how to transition from what should be done?
(functionality) towards how should it be done to meet user requirements (usability)
in the specific context of work. To achieve this, the student will select the interfaces
adequate (physical and virtual) seeking the best interaction schemes (forms, language
natural, GUI¿s, etc.).
/
IMPLEMENTATION OF BUSINESS SYSTEMS
The course is based on the analysis and definition of business processes that are supported by
transactional information systems with SAP technology. In addition, it proposes a review
full of the methodological incorporation of a transactional system to an organization both
from a commercial as well as operational point of view, that is, from implementation; using
international case studies that reinforce the implementation of the knowledge acquired.
/
LIDERAZGO Y PENSAMIENTO SISTÉMICO
The purpose of the course is aimed at the student developing competencies inherent in the
leadership, recognizing their own style, considering that leadership is closely
related to systemic thinking. 
/
MARKETING STRATEGY
The student will analyze in depth the main trends in marketing theory and explore
how to develop value proposals that adapt to new technological trends
digital Design of new management and sales models based on digital proposals
disruptive Efficient and effective use of information for marketing management. Applications
insights from Consumer insight and Customer Journey. Also, explore the changes in the channels
of distribution, such as, the mobile revolution within the marketing strategy and how
Maintain brand positioning in an omnichannel environment.
/
BASIC MATHEMATICS
In this course the student will develop the general competence of quantitative reasoning, in
level 1, through the dimensions of: interpretation, representation, calculation, analysis and
communication or argumentation in simple problems of real context. At the end of the course the
student will be able to work with alphanumeric data, represented in different ways
(tables, graphs, etc.) and use them as arguments to support an idea or make decisions
Based on this information.
/
COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS
Quantitative reasoning: Provides the ability to work with alphanumeric data and
sometimes represented in graphic form. Apply them as arguments to support
An idea or project. They have the ability to
apply concepts and techniques of mathematics, science and engineering obtaining results that
solve problems of greater complexity, related to development, process improvement, and
other aspects of the engineering field.
/
DISCRETE MATHEMATICS
It is convenient to appreciate the technological value of Mathematics in this century, since it is lived in
full era of knowledge, digital era; available to everyone is digital technology
(computers, digital cameras, smartphones, smart TVs, MP3, MP4,
etc.). Algebraic coding theory is involved in communications so that the
message arrives clearly, debit cards, credit cards are used, purchases are made by
Internet; There is coding, data understanding and cryptography. Well, in
All this is present in Discrete Mathematics, the foundation of all modern Theories of
Information and Communication.
/
PROCESS MEASUREMENT AND EVALUATION
The course is based on the analysis and definition of management indicators that allow to know the
process behavior for decision making and improvement actions. The
methodologies for the improvement in the most widespread Process Management, deepening the
Reengineering application within the process evaluation framework.
/
MET. AND TOOLS FOR THE BEST. OF PROCESSES
The course is based on the application of management tools and techniques by processes based on
BPM; modeling, analysis, design and process automation to provide criteria for
judgments for the selection and comparison of technologies for business process management.
This allows the student to have the ability to improve business processes.
involved in the company where you work.
/
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF COMPANIES
The course aims to familiarize students with the business environment, their
management and planning thereof, their market positioning through marketing,
the operation of the organization through its operations, the importance of resources
humans in any organization, the use of technologies and the control and monitoring of
operations within an organization. Likewise, students participate in a workshop
Entrepreneurship with the purpose of learning to generate business ideas. In addition the product that
generate in this workshop will serve as a starting point for the final work which will consist of
present an implementation plan in the market of the chosen product.
/
STRATEGIC PLANNING IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The course analyzes the current architecture of the information system of a company, proposes the
portfolio and project prioritization. Proposes the improvement of processes designing and
supporting a new business architecture according to the needs of the company.
Through this knowledge the professional can master an efficient architecture scheme
business that would help a lot in the management of projects in companies
/
INFORMATION SECURITY PRINCIPLES
Given the relevance and importance of the application of information technologies (IT) in the
organizations, it is required to use and exploit them safely in order to preserve the
expected value generation. In this context, professionals with skills in the
governance and security management of IT infrastructures for the benefit of
Organizations and society.
/
PROGRAMMING I
The student learns good programming habits emphasizing the use of a
Five-step methodology: problem analysis, algorithm design, set design
test data, coding and debugging. All these concepts are basic for good
performance in computer projects and provide as a final result a video game where
It shows everything learned.
/
NETWORKS AND DATA COMMUNICATIONS
This course develops the basic concepts of telecommunications, how they are carried out and the
devices used to make it happen, which are necessary for the courses of
project development, as well as to have a good management of networks and communication
in large projects in his professional life
/
SECURITY AND TUNNING OF DATABASE
The course is essentially practical. First, it begins with a review of the main
Oracle features as well as the different architectures and installation forms. Then I know
presents and develops advanced concepts in security and auditing. Continue with the setting
to the point of the database and ends with the tuning of SQL queries.
/
ACADEMIC RESEARCH SEMINAR I
Its character is theoretical-practical and contributes to the development in level 1 of two general competences
from our university: Information Management and Written Communication. Therefore, it plays a role
formative and instrumental for both university and professional life, because feel the
bases and provides experience in activities of academic research.
/
MOBILE SOLUTIONS AND CLOUD
The Mobile and Cloud Solutions course is designed to provide participants with both
theoretical foundations as the practical part that allow them to propose to students the use
Cloud Computing as a competitive advantage at the corporate level. The first part of the course is
It focuses on understanding definitions, methodologies, use of the platform. The second part of
course focuses on generating two technological projects, one with social impact research
and another to create a project in the cloud that generates value at the corporate level.
/
SOCIAL MEDIA
The course seeks to identify the different strategies to promote and spread a brand,
product and service through social networks.
It also has a participatory approach because it will allow the use of web tools and techniques.
2.0, digital marketing and metrics to increase business visibility and take
right decisions, understanding the constant changes and implications of social communication
/
SQL SERVER
In this course the student will be able to design, implement and manage database solutions
oriented to companies, using Microsoft SQL Server 2012. as engine.
Most computer projects need a solid database knowledge.
/