ACADEMIC WRITING
ACADEMIC WRITING
/
INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION
The specialization course of Information Management, of the career of Sciences of the
Computation is theoretical and practical and is aimed at students in the fifth cycle. He
course seeks to develop general oral communication competence and specific competence
to apply the design and development of principles in the construction of software systems of
varied complexity according to ABET-Student Outcome (K).
The course offers the possibility to learn good practices of Data Management with emphasis on
treatment of manipulation of data of high dimension, multimodal and variants in time,
such as image collections, document collections, music collections, social networks
and multidimensional data sets in general. The course deals with the process of
data acquisition, pre-processing, transformation, analysis, visualization and generation of
knowledge that is very useful in the management of information in organizations.
Oral Communication Ability to transmit oral messages effectively for various
audiences, using different resources that facilitate the understanding of the message and achievement of the
purpose.
/
ADVERTISING MANAGEMENT
The Advertising Management course of the Strategic Marketing mention focuses on management
strategic of offline and online advertising to strengthen the positioning of brands,
products and services in order to attract and retain the consumer in the search to generate
Branding and commercial results that maximize revenue to companies.
Today with the development of the internet, 360 ° marketing campaigns involve a
understanding of the multichannel integration of the media and the contact points of the
consumer to develop advertising strategies that generate engagement and with high reach
at the hearings to ensure the business results of the companies.
/
ALGORITHMS AND DATA STRUCTURES
The main tools used today to solve problems of
information processing and analysis in the industry, are nothing more than the combination of many
Algorithms and data structures; know the design and operation of these structures of
data help us develop and refine essential skills such as the ability to take
decisions based on quantitative data of the constructed components.	
/
OPEN SOURCE APPLICATIONS
It is important in the development of projects in the career as much as in the professional life because
covers the implementation of web applications using Java EE and Spring Framework.
/
APPLICATIONS FOR MOBILE DEVICES
At present, the degree of evolution of mobile devices has allowed them to
become a support tool for various activities of daily life and in
multiple business sectors, on the one hand for the benefits of mobile devices and the
functionality that can be implemented in the applications that run on those
platforms. There are several approaches to create mobile experiences, highlighting the
native applications which provide the best possible experience taking advantage of the best of each
platform.
This course starts a journey through the various mobile application development strategies
then focus on creating native experiences about two of the main
mobile platforms: Android and iOS, so that students can develop their
competencies in the creation of mobile solutions that use internal resources of the device,
Store information and integrate with external services.
/
WEB APPLICATIONS
In this course you will learn to implement Windows Forms and Web applications, using the
Microsoft .NET technology (the C # programming language and development tool
Microsoft Visual Studio 2015), make connections to a SQL Server database engine
2014 and service-oriented architecture to develop high distributed systems
complexity. This will allow you to consolidate the knowledge of the C # programming language to a
advanced level in the end of cycle projects and also in the labor market which is very
requested this kind of knowledge.
/
COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE AND OPERATING SYSTEMS
The course performs an exploration from digital mathematics and digital circuits to
main components of a computer's architecture such as processor (CPU), memory,
buses, GPU, inputs and outputs (I / O). At the same time the system operation is established
operational and its integration with real memory, virtual memory, processes, file systems,
among others. As well as the various mathematical algorithms with which
these components work both hardware and software
/
BIOENGINEERING
Its purpose is to provide the future professional interdisciplinary links between the
Life sciences and engineering. In turn, it allows to know the fundamentals of algorithms
computational based on physiological systems and are currently highly
used in information systems, such as genetic Algorithms and Networks
artificial neural and also techniques of computational extraction of signals and images
medical In addition, principles of biomedical instrumentation that includes analysis will be studied
of analog circuits.
/
CALCULUS I
Calculus I is a general course for all engineering careers; theoretical and is dictated in
blended mode, is aimed at second cycle students, provides support
Mathematical to the student for the following subjects specific to each specialty, for such
reason the concepts of each topic are defined in a simple way, relating them to problems
Engineering related.
In this course the student will develop the general competence of quantitative reasoning, in
level 1, through the dimensions of: interpretation, representation, calculation, analysis and
communication or argumentation in simple problems of engineering contexts.
/
QUALITY AND IMPROVEMENT OF SOFTWARE PROCESSES
The course covers the application of quality concepts, tools and methods for management and
improvement of the life cycle processes of software and information systems, through the
Extension of the scope of models and standards such as CMMI, ISO / IEC 29110, ISO / IEC 15504
and ISO / IEC 12207. This allows the student to develop quality software with standards
international
/
COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
The strategist must be the most important actor and the one who must be in tune with the forces
external (market) and internal forces (organization) who ultimately as a whole give
Shape to business results. In that sense, the strategist must have a deep
knowledge of the organization as well as the results that are presented in the outside world.
To do this, you must manage the technique of engaging future business plans with the strategies of
the organization applying leadership and organizational management, complements strengths of
innovation and business management when executing a plan for the development of a new product. He
This course has a practical perspective, it is developed as a workshop and it is oriented to the application of
strategies through the cases of Harvard Business Publishing for the purposes of dynamic
games.
/
ALGORITHMIC COMPLEXITY
The Algorithmic Complexity specialty course, in Computer Science careers
(CC) and Software Engineering (ISW), is theoretical-practical and is aimed at students
fourth cycle for CC and sixth cycle for ISW. The course seeks to develop general competence
Quantitative Reasoning and the specific competence of using techniques and tools
in accordance with ABET - Student Outcome (I) for CC, and the specific competence of using
modern engineering tools in accordance with ABET - Student Outcome (K) for ISW.
The course addresses the mathematical basis for analyzing algorithms. It is intended that the
student is able to identify the classes of existing algorithmic problems and address the
Solution calculation with reasonable use of resources. This is very useful to solve
problems of high levels of complexity that will be presented to him in his career projects and
In your professional life.
/
UNDERSTANDING AND PRODUCTION OF LANGUAGE I
It is a first cycle course, which seeks to develop the
skills related to reading comprehension and writing formal written texts and
appropriate to a specific communicative situation. Therefore, during the course, the activities
they will require the student to reflect if they communicate properly according to the situation
communicative in which it is: the student will not use the language in the same way to
communicate with your friends, by writing an email to a teacher or submit a
claim request before a private institution. In that sense, this course proposes the writing
of formal written texts according to the communicative needs of the university environment
current. These products must present a convenient organization, solid development and
sufficient (which implies a critical reading of the sources of information), and a corresponding writing
with current regulations.
/
ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETS
The accounting and budgeting course will provide the student with the concepts of information
Accounting and how it is used is in the decision making by managers.
At the beginning of the course the accounting information to study will refer to the financial statements and the
analysis of these for management decision making, the development of the
cost concepts and will end with the analysis of the master budget
/
ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT WITH .NET
In this course you will learn to implement Windows Forms and Web applications, using the
Microsoft .NET technology (the C # programming language and development tool
Microsoft Visual Studio 2015), make connections to a SQL Server database engine
2014 and service-oriented architecture to develop high distributed systems
complexity. This will allow you to consolidate the knowledge of the C # programming language to a
advanced level in the end of cycle projects and also in the labor market which is very
requested this kind of knowledge.
/
DESIGN THINKING
The Design Thinking course has been designed with the purpose of allowing the future graduate
develop empathy with the user and real knowledge of its needs for the
Obtaining a problem solution in a disruptive way, through exploration and identification
of the real needs of the user, the conception of the problem from their point of view and the
Development of constant prototypes to validate the solution. This course, line integrator
of Business Initiative
/
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT
This course provides the student with the necessary training for the development of the first
stages of the strategic management process that consists of making advance decisions through
of the strategic planning methodology and the formulation of strategies for its
implantation. It will seek that students can make strategic diagnoses of both
organizational environment as of the organization itself with an optimal search, selection and
integration of information to design a business model that generates value, formulates
viable strategies and prioritize the implementation of strategies over time by
matrix and quantitative tools, closely relating the planning link and
control of the strategic management process.
/
DISABILITY AND INCLUSION
Disability and inclusion seeks to make the problems and challenges it demands visible to students
disability in our society, as future professionals who will have the responsibility
to innovate and manage inclusion policies. It is an elective course of general formation, of character
Theoretical-practical, aimed at students from fifth to seventh cycle of all careers. Search
develop the general skills of Citizenship and Critical Thinking.
/
DATABASE DESIGN
The specialization course in Database Design, in Computer Science careers
(CC), Software Engineering (ISW) and Information Systems Engineering (ISI), is of a character
theoretical-practical and is aimed at students in the fourth cycle for the three races
The knowledge acquired throughout the course is very important in the professional development of the
student since the management of information in database is one of the pillars in training,
Development and growth of any company in the market. This way they can be
participants in the development and implementation of the most important asset of a company such as its
Database.
/
DESIGN OF EXPERIMENTS IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
The importance of the course is because it focuses on analyzing, designing and choosing the tools and
appropriate techniques to run those tests with which it is most likely to discover no
conformities in the entertainment software product. Free tools are used and
owners for the administration of test projects, test plans, test cases,
visualization of results and reports, defect management and automation of
tests, and the necessary test processes are configured to guarantee and control the quality
of the software This is necessary in the professional environment to offer quality software
/
SOFTWARE DESIGN AND PATTERNS
In this course the student will have the first scope of how to organize a software process to
create a software product considering development methodologies and best practices of
programming and be able to provide the necessary knowledge for proper planning of the
development cycle and proper management of the requirements of a software product in the
professional world
/
GAME DESIGN
The course will discuss various strategies for designing video games and prototypes of
fast way, in order for the student to be able to perform game mechanics that
meet the objectives of the game and optimize the production time of a video game through
of prototyping learning. This is useful for both career projects and their
professional performance in the world of video games.
/
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ENTREPRENEURSHIP impleme
provide the student with the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills
allow the optimal development of an entrepreneurial project in the business scenario
current.
/
ENGLISH COMPOSITION 1
ENGLISH COMPOSITION 1
/
SPECIFICATION AND ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS
Nowadays it is important to propose creative and innovative solutions to various problems
that meet specific needs, this is largely obtained by performing an analysis and
systematization of the requirements. Within the software development process, it should be
begin with the collection of user needs, as well as a diagnosis of the situation
Current business. This leads us to be able to describe prototypes or software models, project
a specific product and analyze risks before developing it, optimizing resources and time.
/
APPLIED STATISTICS I
The course is oriented to decision making about
the basis of descriptive statistics, probabilities and interval estimation. For this the student
must take into account relevant information that helps to draw conclusions and take
decisions. The course considers the use of scientific calculators, the Excel spreadsheet or others
Statistical packages as a support tool for data processing.
The course of applied statistics 1 is intended to provide the future engineering professional
a set of qualitative and quantitative information analysis tools for making
decisions in real career situations. The course contributes directly to developing
general powers of quantitative reasoning at a level 1.
/
NEGOTIATING STRATEGIES
Negotiation is a tool that is important to know and develop because the conflict is
is present in the different instances of relations with customers, suppliers,
partners, interest groups among others. The course has been designed to favor the learning of
negotiation techniques and strategies both through theoretical and practical classes that
develop cases of different conflict situations in which knowledge will be applied
provided in the theoretical classes. This dynamic will allow the student to develop their skills
analytical and communicational in situations of conflict.
/
ETHICS AND CITIZENSHIP
The course aims to contribute to the ethical and citizen learning of students by inviting them
to know and explain ethical problems and your daily life. Given that this course
It is done under the blended modality, various educational activities of type are proposed
individual and group, both in face-to-face sessions and in virtual sessions, which means
an active, organized and permanent participation by the students. The strategies to
used include: reading and discussion of texts, analysis and evaluation of films and documentaries,
resolution of cases, debates and exhibitions, virtual forums.
/
EVAL AND NEW TRENDS OF ARQ. OF SOFTWARE
This course covers the analysis, design and documentation of software products at the level of a
distributed architecture and cloud, which are currently booming. Thus,
This provides a knowledge of the technological reality and allows the student to be at
Vanguard.
/
SOFTWARE EVOLUTION
Adapting to the new needs of the industry, in addition to the classic concepts of Management
Configuration, the content is complemented with topics of the evolution process of the
product, such as continuous integration and automated software deployment. Worth noting
that the course is closely related to the issue of product quality control, and this will
Allows the student to be prepared to control the quality of the N product displays
in its N versions, in an automated way, very necessary for today's projects.
/
FINANCE AND ECONOMIC ENGINEERING
The course provides knowledge about the world of analysis, mathematical calculation and development of
Financial algorithms, therefore an integral vision of finance is developed. It will be introduced to
student in the field of modeling financial instruments, developing algorithms
that serve to create computer programs aimed at calculating mathematically, the
profitability indicators that allow you to function successfully in the very demanding System
International Financial
/
PHYSICS I
The Physics I course develops quantitative reasoning competence at level 1, It is
aimed at students of the third cycle for the careers of Civil, Electronic, Industrial Engineering,
Mechatronics, Mining Management, Information Systems and Software and fourth cycle students
For the careers of Business Management Engineering and Computer Science, it has
Prerequisites such as Physics leveling and Calculation I. This course provides a solid conceptual basis
of mechanics, which allows you to continue with the Physics II course of the Faculty of Engineering.
/
PHYSICS II
The course provides the support of physical concepts required by the engineering student, necessary
for subsequent subjects specific to each specialty. The purpose of the course is that the
student analyze, quantify physical magnitudes, develop strategies and basic skills
associated to the behavior of the fluid, the operation of thermodynamic systems and
electrical using the laws of Physics.
/
PHYSICS III
The course provides the support of physical concepts required by the engineering student, necessary
for subsequent subjects specific to each specialty. The purpose of the course is that the
student quantify physical quantities associated with the operation of systems
electromagnetic and optical using the laws of physics.
/
FUNDAMENTOS DE ARQUITECTURA DE SOFTWARE
El curso busca desarrollar las capacidades necesarias para que el estudiante realice el análisis y
diseño de la arquitectura de un producto software, tomando como base las principales
consideraciones relativas a atributos de calidad (requerimientos no funcionales), estilos y patrones
arquitectónicos y la documentación de la arquitectura basada en las vistas arquitectónicas claves
establecidas en la industria y muy necesarios para le profesional actual.
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF GAME THEORY
This course the student implements a subsystem within the framework of the engine architecture of
video game. By understanding the architecture of video game engines, students recognize
the importance of implementing aspects of a video game such as rendering, input,
animations, audio, among others. And by recognizing the importance of their implementation, they can
seek to achieve better results in game development compared to games
developed from previously existing engines.
/
FUNDAMENTALS IN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE
Nowadays companies, and organizations in general, produce high volumes of
information as a result of its processes, which is not always used properly
to support the decision making process. This course will focus on the identification of
information exploitation opportunities based on datawarehouse solutions, and
data visualization tools, promoting with them, knowledge development and
the achievement of competitive advantages in organizations.
/
SOFTWARE PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The student is trained to define and plan a software project according to the
product requirements and established restrictions, control its execution and make the closing
successful achieving the goals set. This knowledge acquired in the course serves the
Last cycle workshops as for your professional performance.
/
AGILE PROJECT MANAGEMENT WITH SCRUM
The course corresponds to the area of training in project management and work teams being
theoretical-practical nature with greater emphasis on the practical part. It has as its purpose more
important to provide the knowledge to be able to participate in "agile teams" and develop the
management, communication and collaboration skills necessary for project development.
/
TALENT MANAGEMENT
One of the most important challenges of organizations is to align the management processes of their
human capital to the current and prevailing competitive demand. The competition for talent and
New business models with a global approach have put people management and its impact
in the results of the organization as a priority point in the agenda of the Managers
Generals The course has been designed for students to learn tools
practices and current people management so that, using an innovative approach, they can
identify those that represent a value contribution in any of the resource processes
humans of their respective careers.
/
IHC AND MOBILE TECHNOLOGIES
The course will help students understand how to transition from what should be done?
(functionality) towards how should it be done to meet user requirements (usability)
in the specific context of work. To achieve this, the student will select the interfaces
adequate (physical and virtual) seeking the best interaction schemes (forms, language
natural, GUI¿s, etc.).
/
IMPLEM APPLICATION FOR DISP. ANDROID AND HTML
This course focuses on the Android platform and will allow students to develop their
competences in the process of design and development of multi-device mobile experiences on
the Android system, creating functional experiences that take advantage of the resources of the
device, handle information and integrate with external services.
/
APPLICATION IMPLEMENTATION FOR APPLE DEVICES
This course focuses on the technologies offered by Apple at the level of mobile devices, wearable
and IoT, allowing students to develop their skills in the design process and
development of native multi-device experiences on iOS, watchOS and tvOS, coming to create
functional experiences that take advantage of the resources of the device, manage information and
integrate with external services.
/
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Currently, it is necessary to know about software development processes. To get to
To this end, students need to understand the different models and development processes of
software in order that they can choose the most suitable model for each project of
developing. Also, the development of complex software involves the use of patterns and design
based on components, something that will be very necessary in the projects that are part of your
professional work
/
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Artificial Intelligence is the area of Computer Science that cares about
Automate intelligent behavior. Research in the area has addressed tasks that go
from sensory interactions with the world (vision, dialogue, movement) to cognitive
(analysis, problem solving, games). AI helps people in different areas of the
knowledge to use information better and work smarter.
/
LEADERSHIP AND SYSTEMIC THINKING
The purpose of the course is aimed at the student developing competencies inherent in the
leadership, recognizing their own style, considering that leadership is closely
related to systemic thinking.
/
MARKETING STRATEGY
The student will analyze in depth the main trends in marketing theory and explore
how to develop value proposals that adapt to new technological trends
digital Design of new management and sales models based on digital proposals
disruptive Efficient and effective use of information for marketing management. Applications
insights from Consumer insight and Customer Journey. Also, explore the changes in the channels
of distribution, such as, the mobile revolution within the marketing strategy and how
Maintain brand positioning in an omnichannel environment.
/
BASIC MATHEMATICS
In this course the student will develop the general competence of quantitative reasoning, in
level 1, through the dimensions of: interpretation, representation, calculation, analysis and
communication or argumentation in simple problems of real context. At the end of the course the
student will be able to work with alphanumeric data, represented in different ways
(tables, graphs, etc.) and use them as arguments to support an idea or make decisions
Based on this information.
/
COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS
Quantitative reasoning: Provides the ability to work with alphanumeric data and
sometimes represented in graphic form. Apply them as arguments to support
An idea or project. Performs mathematical operations showing, in most cases,
precision in developments modeling everyday problems to obtain conclusions and
build arguments based on valid results. ABET Outcome (a.2): They have the ability to
apply concepts and techniques of mathematics, science and engineering obtaining results that
solve problems of greater complexity, related to development, process improvement, and
other aspects of the engineering field. 
/
DISCRETE MATHEMATICS
It is convenient to appreciate the technological value of Mathematics in this century, since it is lived in
full era of knowledge, digital era; available to everyone is digital technology
(computers, digital cameras, smartphones, smart TVs, MP3, MP4,
etc.) Algebraic coding theory is involved in communications so that the
message arrives clearly, debit cards, credit cards are used, purchases are made by
Internet; There is coding, data understanding and cryptography. Well, in
All this is present in Discrete Mathematics, the foundation of all modern Theories of
Information and Communication.
/
CONCURRENT AND DISTRIBUTED PROGRAMMING
At present, the growth of computing capacity is due to multicore processors, graphic processors used for general purpose or computer clusters
Distributed Master the techniques and tools to develop applications under a
High performance computing perspective, gives us a competitive advantage in training
student professional.
/
PROGRAMMING I
The course allows the student to
know the principles of structured and modular programming, write programs doing
use of mathematical and / or scientific knowledge, use basic data types, structures of
control, vectors, matrices, functions and pointers. The C ++ language is the one that will be used for
coding of your programs. 
/
NETWORKS AND DATA COMMUNICATIONS
This course develops the basic concepts of telecommunications, how they are carried out and the
devices used to make it happen, which are necessary for the courses of
project development, as well as to have a good management of networks and communication
in large projects in his professional life
/
ACADEMIC RESEARCH SEMINAR I
Its character is theoretical-practical and contributes to the development in level 1 of two general competences
from our university: Information Management and Written Communication. Therefore, it plays a role
formative and instrumental for both university and professional life, because feel the
bases and provides experience in activities of academic research.
/
SQL SERVER
In this course the student will be able to design, implement and manage database solutions
oriented to companies, using Microsoft SQL Server 2012. as engine.
Most computer projects need a solid database knowledge.
/
