/
Introduction to Computers 
This course will introduce the students to microcomputer usage and will fulfill
the core curriculum computerliteracy/technology requirements. Topics include;
word processor, presentation, spreadsheet, anddatabase.
/
College Writing I
This course focuses on effective writing, grammar review, and critical thinking. Students
develop research and writing skills using classical rhetorical modes of
argument and logic and by writing college-level essays and research papers
with the use of information technology. This course will satisfy the Gordon
Rule requirement in the Florida State UniversitySystem
/
Computer Programming I 
This course builds on the basic concepts and syntax of
the Java programming language. It is the first course in the series of
programming study in computer science. Topics include programming,
problem solving, design, construct, analysis of the programs and objectoriented programming. 
/
University 101 
This course is designed to help new college students develop study habits,
attitudes and knowledge which will lead to academic success. The course
content includes Florida Memorial University’s history and resources, student
time management, study methods, memory techniques, career exploration,
and cultural literacy.
/
College Writing II 
This is an intensive writing, reading, and research course. Students compose research
papers and college-level essays based on readings from poetry, short stories,
drama, novels, periodicals, and other literature, incorporating the use of
information technology. This course will satisfy the Gordon Rule.
/
Applied Calculus
The applications of calculus using computer algebra systems. A brief review of functions and plane
analytic geometry; intuitive and geometric definitions of limit, continuity and
derivatives; derivatives of elementary functions; applications of derivatives
including optimization problems taken from various disciplines; indefinite
integral, Riemann sums and definite integral; elementary techniques of
integration; and applications of integration in variousdisciplines.
/
African Amer His I 
This is an intensive reading course. The course promotes the awareness and
exploration of relevant books and materials concerning the lives, struggles,
achievements, and contributions of African Americans.
/
Critical Think/Read
This course develops and strengthens the critical
thinking skills needed for reading college and professional materials, and will
include bias and propaganda, fallacies, connotation/ denotation,
inductive/deductive reasoning, problem-solving, and inferential thinking.
/
Critical Think Info Age 
This course is designed to equip students with the ability to apply critical
thinking in the field of Computing, Information Systems, Information
Technology, and Mathematics. They will demonstrate critical thinking skills
through the analysis and/or synthesis of information to draw conclusions or
make decisions on matters pertaining to career planning, personal growth and
goal-setting as potential careers of the future in the information age.
/
Introduction to Public Speaking
An introduction to effective communication in speaker-audience situations.
Students learn basic techniques of researching, organizing and presenting
their own, original ideas to an audience. There is additional emphasis on
developing effective listening skills and ethical communication strategies for
use in a democratic society.
/
Principles of Mgmt 
An introductory management course dealing with the fundamental principles of management:
planning, organizing, staffing, leading and controlling. The systems concept of
management and the role of the manager in each level of the organization are
emphasized.
/
Computer Programming II 
An intermediate level course in programming with a more advanced concepts and programs technique. The course offers deeper
understanding of classes and object in Java. The course also provides more indepth skills in java programming such as polymorphism, inheritance,
handling exceptions, file and string manipulation, and recursion.
/
Prob & Statistics 
Probability concepts, discrete and continuous distributions, random variables, expectation and variance,
frequency distribution, statistical inferences and sampling, hypotheses testing
for the mean and variance of a population.
/
Syst Analysis/Design 
Uses analysis and review of existing systems to explain
the structured systems analysis and design process. Working with the
system’s life cycles, topics include flow diagrams, cost/benefit analysis,
interviewing and documentation. Students are required to solve case studies
and develop a documentation portfolio.
/
Introduction to Religion 
This is an intensive reading and writing course surveying the practices and
associated customs of the major recognized religions of the world, such as
Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism and Islam.
/
Micro-Economics 
A study of the aggregate level of national income and output as it affects economic growth and stability, inflation, unemployment.
/
Computer Organization
This course introduces computer hardware and system software concepts. The objective is to provide technical
knowledge and skills on computer resource management, systems design, and
systems implementation. Material on systems architecture, data storage
technology, systems integration and performance, input/output technology,
data and network communication, computer networks, application
development, operating systems, file management, internet and distributed
applications, and system administration are presented in this course. 
/
Network/Data Com 
This course covers the basic concepts of network and
data communications. The course covers sections on network design essentials,
media, interface cards, communications and protocols, architectures,
administration and support, types of networks, troubleshooting network
problems, and internetresources.
/
Web Technology 
Students will learn how to plan and create a Web page
from scratch, import and manage media from other sources, publishing and
maintaining a web site, using hyperlinks to navigate throughout a website or
link to other sites on the Internet, add navigation bars and user interactions on
the Web.
/
Operating Systems 
Introduces the students to operating systems and
systems programming. Topics include design, implementation, and
maintenance techniques, multi-level memory management and resource
allocation, scheduling supervisors, loaders, I/O control systems, multiprogramming, file and systems protection.
/
Database Management Systems 
The study focuses on the theoretical design
and management of database systems conceptual data models,
implementation models, data dictionary and policy formulation. The study
will also uncover structures relating to databases, design methodology,
normalization, integrity constraints, distributed databases, data warehouse,
and relational algebra.
/
/
Spanish I
This course and its sequel, constitute the basic sequence in Spanish. Emphasis is on the development of
competence in the language. 
/
Spanish II
This course completes the sequence in the Spanish language core requirement. It prepares students for advanced course work in Spanish if desired. 
/
Principles of Accounting I
A study of basic accounting concepts
essential to recording business transactions, preparing financial statements,
and interpreting data for financial decisions
/
Principles of Accounting II 
The study of basic accounting concepts essential to recording business transactions, preparing
financial statements, and interpreting data for financial decisions.
/
Management Information Systems 
Study of life cycle and prototyping methodologies used to develop, implement, and maintain computer- based
information systems. Discusses transaction processing, management
information and decision-support systems. Can include case studies and team
presentation.
/
Senior Project 
This is a capstone course for senior majors in the
Computer and Information Sciences. Students will have an opportunity to
undertake valuable research in areas of computer science, computer
information systems, and management information systems to organize into
teams and select a design project, complete the preliminary design project for
approval and finally present detail and final design work or prototype to departmental faculty.
/
Principles of Microeconomics 
A study of U.S. market systems emphasizing concepts of supply and demand, competition, pricing, resource allocation as applied to issues in business, labor, and public policy.
/
Computer Ethics 
This course deals with the ethical and
social issues arising from the development and deployment of computers in
society. The course also provides fundamental information about computer
and technology ethics, as well as the details the ramifications of continuing
technological developments with regard to privacy, security, piracy, access to
computing technology for person with disabilities and other important
philosophical and ethical issues.
/
Applied Analytics 
This course will expose students to animation techniques and web
programming with ActionScript in Flash and Java Script. The course
emphasizes on Web Multimedia Applications, such as the user interface,
drawing tools, inverse kinematics and 3D tools, mathematics objects, and the
Media Encoder.
/
Computer Security 
This course deals with the essentials of computer security. It covers
cryptography, computer system security, database, operating systems,
network security, mobility, and writing secure programs. There is a special
emphasis on: single key and public key, authentication, access control,
malicious software, firewalls, VPNs, intrusion detection and prevention
systems, Denial of Service attacks, and other security technologies.
/
Simulation & Management Applications I
A study of program packages leading to solutions of management problems. Advanced techniques in solving problems
will be discussed and preparing for IT Certification.
