/
Composition I
Intensive study of and practice in writing
processes, from invention and researching to
drafting, revising, and editing, both individually
and collaboratively. Emphasis on effective
rhetorical choices, including audience, purpose,
arrangement, and style. Focus on writing
the academic essay as a vehicle for learning,
communicating, and critical analysis.
/
Composition II
Intensive study of and practice in the strategies
and techniques for developing research-based
expository and persuasive texts. Emphasis on
effective and ethical rhetorical inquiry, including
primary and secondary research methods,
critical reading of verbal, visual, and multimedia
texts; systematic evaluation, synthesis, and
documentation of information sources; and
critical thinking about evidence and conclusions.
/
Calculus for Business and Social Sciences
Limits and continuity, derivatives, graphing
and optimization, exponential and logarithmic
functions, anti-derivatives, integration,
applications to management, economics and
business.
Stars and Galaxies
Part of a two semester survey course in
astronomy intended for both science and nonscience majors. Properties of the sun and
stars, stellar spectra, stellar formation, life
and death of stars, formation of the elements,
black holes, galaxies, expansion of the universe
and cosmology. Laboratory experiments and
activities in stellar and galactic astronomy.
/
Solar System
Part of a two semester survey course in
astronomy intended for both science and
non-science majors.&nbsp; History of
astronomy, Copernican revolution, astronomical
observation, physics of planetary motion,
comparative study of planet surfaces and
atmospheres, moons, asteroids, comets,
planetary system formation and exoplanets.
/
Humanities
An interdisciplinary, multi-perspective
assessment of cultural, political, philosophical,
and aesthetic factors critical to the formulation
of values and the historical development of the
individual and of society
/
World Art Survey I
Examination of painting, sculpture, architecture,
and other arts from prehistoric to Renaissance
periods.
/
United States History I
A survey of the social, political, economic,
cultural, and intellectual history of the United
States from the pre-Columbian era to the Civil
War/Reconstruction period. Includes the study
of pre-Columbian, colonial, revolutionary,
early national, slavery, sectionalism, and the
Civil War/Reconstruction eras. Themes may
include: American settlement and diversity,
American culture, religion, civil and human
rights, technological change, economic change,
immigration and migration, and creation of the
federal government.
/
United States History II
A survey of the social, political, economic,
cultural, and intellectual history of the United
States from the Civil War/Reconstruction era
to the present. Examines industrialization,
immigration, world wars, the Great Depression,
Cold War and post-Cold War eras. Themes
may include: American culture, religion, civil
and human rights, technological change,
economic change, immigration and migration,
urbanization and suburbanization, the expansion
of the federal government, and the study of U.S.
foreign policy.
/
Federal Government
Origin and development of the U.S. Constitution,
structure and powers of the national government
including the legislative, executive, and judicial
branches, federalism, political participation,
the national election process, public policy, civil
liberties, and civil rights.
/
Texas Government
Origin and development of the Texas
constitution, structure and powers of state
and local government, federalism, and intergovernmental relations, political participation,
the election process, and the political culture of
Texas.
/
Principles of Microeconomics
Analysis of the behavior of individual economic
agents, including consumer behavior and
demand, producer behavior and supply, price
and output decisions by firms under various
market structures, factor markets, market
failures and international trade
/
Public Speaking
Application of communication theory and
practice to the public speaking context with
emphasis on audience analysis, speaker delivery,
ethics of communication, cultural diversity, and
speech organizational techniques to develop
students' speaking abilities as well as their
ability to effectively evaluate oral presentations.
/
Learning Frameworks
An inquiry around the broad, interdisciplinary
concepts of civic engagement and citizenship
for students to explicitly examine and engage in
advanced critical thinking for university study.
This course promotes intellectual readiness by
helping students build and find the resources
to become personally responsible and active
members of the university community, their
education, and their word.
/
Principles of Accounting I - FinanciaL
Accounting concepts and their application
in transaction analysis and financial
statement preparation; analysis of financial
statements; and asset and equity accounting in
proprietorships, partnerships and corporations.
/
 Introduction to Computer Information Systems
A general overview of the computing field and
its typical applications, information systems
concepts and terminologies. Topics include
hardware, software and telecommunication
fundamentals, the internet, systems
development methods and career opportunities.
Hands-on experience using application software.
/
Information Systems Theory and Practice
Introduction to the theory and practice of
information systems. Development, application
and management of IS. Hardware and software
issues for IS. Ethical, social and security related
issues of IS. IS environmentS.
/
Business Data Communications
Introduction to business data communications.
WANs, LANs and internet concepts. A survey
of data communications with emphasis on the
impact of digital technology on the operation,
management and economics of computer
information systems.
/
Web Application Development
Survey of languages, tools and techniques for
Web application development, HTML, XHTML,
CSS, JavaScript, dynamic HTML, Server-side
web development using .Net Framework with
ASP.NET and C#, Perl, CGI programming with
Perl, XML. Laboratory instruction.
/
Modern System Analysis and Design
Key concepts and principles of system analysis
and design within the context of information
system development. Emphasis on the
application of tools and techniques along with
the role and responsibilities of the systems
analyst as well as the systems project manager.
/
Computer Systems Administration
Administration of computers and their operating
systems, both as stand-alone and in network
topologies. Unix is used as an example.
Laboratory instruction.
/
Senior Project in Computer Science
May be taken only during the final semester
before graduation. Registration is restricted to
students with an approved Candidate Plan of
Study. Students develop a significant computer
application for a realistic project. Emphasis
will be on practical experience on all phases of
constructing a computer solution. Professional
behavior, ethics and teamwork will be developed
throughout the project. Students prepare written
reports and give oral presentations.
/
Computer Science I
Introduction to computer programming using
Python. Topics include: design tools (flowcharts,
pseudocode) control flow statements (if,
while, for), simple arithmetic expressions,
input and output statements, functions, data
structures including strings and lists, text files.
Introduction to software development lifecycle
and testing. The course is programmingintensive with in-class assignments and weekly
homework and a final project. Introduction to
Arduino and number systems.
/
Computer Science II
Build upon basic programming concepts
using Java constructs such as iteration,
selection, recursion, exception handling, data
structures and file I/O. Introduce Objectoriented programming concepts including: reuse
principles, data abstraction, classes, inheritance,
polymorphism, exception handling and UML to
build robust code and enhance problem solving
methodology.
/
Data Structures
Advanced programming techniques and data
structures including arrays, linked lists, queues
and stacks; abstract data types, recursion,
searching and sorting, binary trees, hashing
techniques, elementary algorithm design and
analysis, and more.
/
Design of Database Systems
Design of database systems, data description
and manipulation languages, data models,
entity-relationship model, relational model,
SL, relational algebra, normalization theory,
DBMS, internet, database design, data flow
diagrams, and implementation of database
systems. Laboratory instruction.
/
Quantitative Methods for Management
Introduction to quantitative techniques for
management; probability, inventory and
production models, linear programming,
queuing, replacement models, Markov analysis
and network models. 
/
Discrete Mathematics
Introductory mathematical logic, mathematical
induction, relations and functions, basic
counting techniques, graphs and trees and
applications to computing devices. Designed
for students majoring in the computer related
disciplines.
/
Management Theory and Practice
Management policies and processes including
planning, organizing and controlling; overview
of the&nbsp;functions of organization theory
and behavior.
/
Computational Statistics
Descriptive statistics, basic probability concepts,
normal distribution, parameter estimation,
testing of hypothesis, correlation and
/
Software Engineering
Introduction to Software Engineering. Major
phases of the software life cycle are introduced
from requirements through maintenance.
/
Written Communications in Business
Theory and practices of business
communications: preparation of effective letters,
policy statements, procedures, reports, and
related documents.
/
Advanced Technical Writing
Advanced approaches to the writing of technical
documents for professional audiences:
correspondence, proposal reports, manuals, and
descriptions.
/
 Information Technology Project
Management
Credit: 3 | Lecture: 3
The course examines the defining characteristics
of technology-oriented projects, especially
involving the development of software intensive
systems, and introduces students to a variety
of project management techniques that
can be applied in a technology-oriented
project context. Project management issues
including estimation, risk-assessment, quality
management, monitoring and control will be
discussed. While technology-intensive projects
are similar in some respects to other types
of projects, they also pose unique challenges
for the managers and organizations that
undertake them. Technology-intensive project
management is particularly challenging because
of several factors including: (1) the rapid
pace of technological changes occurring in
the IS and IT fields, (2) the invisible nature
of software, (3) the ever-present pressure
to add new features and functionality to
systems, and (4) the difficulty of managing the
organizational changes that accompany most
technology implementations. 
/
Advanced Software Development With .Net Framework and C#
In depth study of the managed environment
provided by .NET Framework and its use in
developing advanced windows applications
utilizing OOP concepts and techniques. Includes
GUI issues, event and exception handling, multithreading, networking, collections, file and
database access as well as an introduction to
ASP.NET, Web Forms and Web Services.
/
Electronic Commerce
Key concepts and principles of e-commerce;
importance of e-commerce in the global
economy; technological elements of the
infrastructure of e-commerce; business and
social factors associated with the success or
failure of e-commerce; critical thinking to
strategize and plan technology based solutions
to achieve business goals.
/
Network Protocols
Data communications systems software
concepts; computer network architecture; ISO
model. 
/
Operating Systems
Analysis and design of basic operating
systems concepts, including multiprocessing,
interprocess communication and
synchronization, scheduling, file systems,
memory management, input/output and
deadlock. Examples drawn from real operating
systems including Unix and Windows NT.
/
Computer Security
Introduction to encryption, decryption and
cryptographical protocols; security components;
security policies and mechanisms in computer
applications, computer systems and networks;
legal/ethical issues in computer security.
/
