SPEECH COMMUNICATION
Provides an
overview of the process of communication and introduces
communication theory. Provides practical training in the
fundamentals of effective presentation for individuals in both public
speaking and group communication settings. Emphasizes discussion
of contemporary issues and the analysis of public discourse.
/
TECHNOLOGY-BASED PUBLIC SPEAKING
Provides knowledge and skills to lead others more effectively
through presentational communication utilizing online technology
and delivery frameworks. Includes developing more meaningful
voice based on ethical communication, audience engagement and
thoughtful responses to contemporary issues
/
COMMUNICATION IN A TECHNOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Explores the impact of the computer culture
on human communication. Identifies how the computer culture
has changed communication, norms, expectations and language.
Practices key competencies associated with communication
interaction, including interpersonal, organizational and conflict
communication
/
PERSUASION, INFLUENCE AND MOTIVATION
Examines the general theories that explain persuasion and one’s
ability to influence others. Discusses communication skills,
attitudes and competencies associated with persuasion, influence
and motivation. Enables students to learn and practice powerful
persuasion communication skills that will enhance both personal
and professional success.
/
CULTURAL INTELLIGENCE
Develops culture
competence skills required in today's global economy. Foundation
to the theory and practice of cultural intelligence, which predicts
adjustment and success in multicultural settings. Examines deep
layers of culture, including core worldview assumptions. 
/
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
Using
readings, film, field experience and/or dialogue, the course
investigates cultural identity, meaning, patterns, relationships and
conflicts that arise as contact increases between people of
different cultures in our global society
/
CONTEMPORARY MATHEMATICS
Presents
topics in contemporary mathematics that are relevant to the
Liberal Arts student. Develops the skills required to understand
and interpret quantitative information that students encounter in
the Liberal Arts curriculum
/
NATURAL SCIENCE
Focuses on the basic
elements of the natural sciences to provide students with a broad
understanding of various themes including Geology, Astronomy
and basic Physics
/
ADVANCED SCIENCE
Explores various
scientific disciplines and practices, as well as the application of
science in everyday life
/
Philosophical Inquiry and Reflection
Philosophical Inquiry and Reflection
/
COLLEGE ALGEBRA
Includes algebraic
operations, equations and inequalities, functions and their
graphs, solution of polynomial, exponential and logarithmic
functions and linear systems of equations.
/
FUNDAMENTALS OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
Designed to provide students with an
understanding of the basic concepts of human anatomy and
physiology. The student will learn basic terminology and the
general organization of body systems including the tissue, organ,
and organ system levels. The specific organ systems to be
studied in this course include the integumentary (skin), skeletal,
muscular, nervous, special senses, endocrine, cardiovascular,
lymphatic, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive.
/
LEADING EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS I
Explores concepts and theories in leadership and management as
they are applied in healthcare settings. Examines leadership versus
management skills, team development, systems theory, strategic 
planning, organizational culture and the role of leadership in the
organization. 
/
FOUNDATIONS OF PROGRAMMING
Entrylevel course in which students use an object-oriented
programming language called Xojo to learn basic programming
concepts such as If-then-else, looping, strings, lists, arrays, in a
visual programming environment. Students will also be
introduced to the Java programming environment
/
JAVA PROGRAMMING
Entry-level Java
programming course in which students use the Java objectoriented programming language to solve real-world problems. 
/
FOUNDATIONS OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Introduces contemporary information systems concepts.
Focuses on business processes, software, hardware, data, and
communication technologies, and how these components can
be integrated and managed to create business competitive
advantage. Hands-on experience with SAP ERP software. 
/
SYSTEMS ANALYSIS AND DESIGN
Studies the
analysis and design of computer based information systems.
Considers transformation processes and comprehensive design.
Includes advanced technology, emphasizing expert and
knowledge-based systems. Considers human resources,
communications and computers in a systems framework
/
ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE
Presents
design, management and administration of simple to complex
network topologies. Introduces Internet connectivity and
protocols supporting networked applications over a distributed
network and their relationship with end-users. Examines the
concepts of user content, applications, services, and
infrastructure. 
/
FOUNDATIONS OF CYBER SECURITY
Introduces the principles and practices of information security
including security models, internal and external security threats,
and attacks. Topics include cryptography, network, mobile,
host, applications, data, access control, and operational security. 
/
WEB AND DATABASE APPLICATIONS
Introduces web-based multi-tiered distributed application
development. Topics include using markup and scripting
languages in the Presentation tier, services in the (web and
business) Logic tier, and a relational database in the Data tier. 
/
MOBILE ENTERPRISE COMPUTING
Introduces platform-based software development for tablets, smart
phones, and servers. Students learn to solve contemporary
software engineering problems by creating Graphical User
Interface apps that communicate over a network with an
Enterprise Server and Database.
/
INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICS
Presents standard topics in introductory statistics for students whose
major is not mathematics. Topics include descriptive statistic,
probability distributions, estimations, hypothesis testing, linear
regression and correlation and other topics.
/
INTRODUCTION TO DISCRETE MATHEMATICS
Introduces mathematical tools used by computer scientists
with an emphasis on developing problem solving abilities.
Topics include machine logic, set theory, Boolean algebra,
mathematical induction, and data structures
/
ACCOUNTING FOR MANAGERS
Introduces
basic terminology and concepts embodied in accounting that are
utilized by business organizations to facilitate sound decision
making. The primary focus of this course is aimed at non
accounting students who are interested in better understanding
how managers assess overall economic performance of their
companies when applying accounting tools and techniques that
help measure that performance.
/
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS
Explores the
contemporary business environment by introducing fundamental
business concepts and models through business simulation.
Provides a solid foundation for future business courses in the
functional areas of business and emphasizes how these functional
areas interact to encourage profitable, sustainable and sociallyresponsible business practices
/
MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY
Provides an
intensive study in the language used in the health care field.
Includes the use of prefix, suffix and root words to identify,
analyze, define and interpret medical terms. Emphasizes the
correct construction, pronunciation, spelling and use of medical
terminology, especially as applied in the interpretation of
medical reports
/
INTRODUCTION TO HEALTH INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Emphasizes form, content and regulations
impacting the health care record in the acute care setting.
Explores legal reimbursement and computerized aspects of the
health record as well as the functions and responsibilities of
Health Information Services. Examines various health care
delivery systems and health care practitioners. 
/
ETHICS IN HEALTH CARE SERVICES
Examines
the practical application of ethical principles, theories and
methods to ethical dilemmas in health care with a particular
emphasis on professional and organizational ethics. Formal ethical
analysis of case studies and topics is used to explore clinical,
organizational and health policy issues, enhance ethical reflection
and dialogue, support decision-making, and encourage moral
leadership. 
/
DATABASE MANAGEMENT
Introduces core concepts in data management. Students identify organizational
information requirements, convert conceptual data models into
relational data models, apply normalization techniques, and
utilize an Oracle relational database management system in a
virtual lab environment
/
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Provides a foundational and practical knowledge of project management
principles. Identifies tools and processes for managing projects
using both Waterfall and Agile methodologies. 
/
INFORMATION SYSTEMS STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
Explores
how INFORMATION SYSTEMS is changing and will continue to change organizations as
we now know them by introducing the complex decisions
facing real organizations through a number of mini cases and a
cyber security simulator. These provide an opportunity to apply
the models/theories/frameworks presented, giving students the
confidence and ability to tackle the tough issues regarding INFORMATION SYSTEMS
management and strategy, and a clear understanding of their
importance in delivering business value
/
Senior Capstone
Senior Capstone
/
BUSINESS PROCESS MANAGEMENT
Introduces
key concepts and approaches to business process management
and improvement. Examines how to identify, document, model,
assess, and improve core business processes. Hands-on
experience with SAP ERP software
/
BUSINESS ANALYTICS
Introduces business
intelligence techniques for transforming
structured/unstructured data into meaningful information in
order to gain competitive advantage. Explores the managerial,
strategic and technical issues associated with
developing/deploying business intelligence and analytics 
/
ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS
Provides an understanding
of the managerial/technical issues in planning, designing, and
implementing enterprise systems. Demonstrates the
integration of information and business processes across
functional areas into a unified system. Hands-on experience
with SAP ERP software
/
HEALTH LAW FOR INFORMATICS AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Examines legal concepts
in informatics and health information management settings for
compliance with laws, standards and regulations protecting the
use, privacy, security and confidentiality of health information
across various enterprises. Managing access and disclosure of
health information and protected health information as well as
e-health information is also covered. Graduate level includes
completion of a project focused on the role of Risk
Management and Quality Improvement programs in health care
organization in responding to and preventive adverse events. 
/
HEALTH CARE DATA ANALYTICS
Examines current and emerging practices in the application of data
analytics. Topics include clinical, financial, operations, quality
analytics, and trends in practices, customer expectations, and
regulations that impact analytics. It will also address ethical
issues in gathering, analyzing and reporting healthcare data.
Including, roles and applications of descriptive, retrospective
and prescriptive analytics in various settings through the use of
case studies, practice tools and techniques to analyze given data
sets for specific outcomes
/
MANAGEMENT OF E-HIM AND INFORMATION GOVERNANCE
The focus of this course is on the
advanced concepts of managing digital clinical information in
health care facilities. Topics include: identity management,
health information exchange and data sharing, current trends in
e-HIM, eDiscovery, the personal health record and patient
portals. The course will also cover components and strategies
of Information Governance including; interoperability of data,
compliance data dictionary standards, and factors that influence
data integrity. Graduate level includes development of an
eDiscovery response plan and Information Governance
assessment tool
/
HEALTH CARE INFORMATICS & INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Introduces foundational knowledge and skills to
participate in the design, selection, implementation and use of
clinical and administrative information systems. Provides an
overview of information systems in all health care settings with 
emphasis on electronic health record systems, data standards,
and data exchanges. Familiarizes the student with new and
emerging technologies in the health care field and includes
concepts and principles of health care informatics in the health
professions and health care delivery systems. The graduate
component extends foundational knowledge through additional
readings, case analysis, and/or applied project work. 
/

