/
EGR First-Year Seminar
The EGR First-Year Seminar is designed to assist new students in
making a successful transition from learning in high school (or from
another college) to learning in engineering at Baylor.
/
Introduction to Engineering 
Introduction to the engineering profession. Topics include engineering
disciplines, ethics, the impact of technology on the world, analysis and
design using a team design project, and computer-aided design and problem
solving.
/
Introduction to Engineering Analysis 
Introduction to fundamental techniques used in engineering analysis.
/
Engineering Design I 
Introduction to the engineering design process via team-based projects
encompassing the design, construction and testing of an engineering
device or system. Projects will emphasize oral, written, and graphical
engineering communication skills and topics related to engineering
professionalism. 
/
Engineering Design II 
A capstone design course for emphasizing the decision-making process
that must be used by a practicing engineer to apply the basic sciences in
order to convert resources optimally to meet stated objectives.
/
Social and Ethical Issues in Engineering
Study of the relationship between engineering, technology, and
society. Topics include philosophical perspectives on engineering and
technology, technological values, impact of technological change, social
and ethical responsibilities of engineers, and public technology policy. 
/
Calculus I
Differential calculus of a single variable. Introduction to the
definite integral and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. 
/
Calculus II 
Integral calculus of a single variable, differential equations, slope
fields, and power series. 
/
Calculus III 
Differential and integral calculus of several variables, Green's
Theorem. 
/
Ordinary Differential Equations 
Differential equations of first order, linear equations of order two
and higher, introduction to power series methods, elements of the Laplace
Transform, some facts from linear algebra and systems of differential
equations. 
/
Linear Algebra
Vectors, matrix operations, linear transformations, fundamental
properties of vector spaces, systems of linear equations, eigenvalues,
and eigenvectors. 
/
Numerical Methods
Numerical differentiation and integration, linear systems of
equations, numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations, curve
fitting, and computational techniques.
/
Basic Principles of Modern Chemistry I 
An introduction to chemical reactions; the mole concept; properties of
gases, solids, liquids, and solutions; atomic structure; periodic
properties; chemical bonding, and molecular structure. 
/
The Christian Scriptures 
An introduction to the Old and New Testaments (their contents,
historical backgrounds, and major themes), and to appropriate strategies
for interpretation of the Bible.
/
The Christian Heritage 
An introduction to Christian life and thought, from the early church
to the present, through an examination of great texts with an emphasis on
Christian doctrine, ethics, witness and institutions. 
/
Thinking and Writing 
A course designed to help students better understand English grammar,
rhetoric, and usage for correct and effective writing. The course focuses
on the several steps in organizing and writing the expository essay for a
variety of purposes. 
/
Technical Writing
Emphasis on theories, principles, and practices of effective technical
writing and writing in the sciences. Students will compose technical
genres such as reports, proposals, memos, and documentation with an
emphasis on usability, accessibility, data analysis, information design,
ethics, writing style, and collaboration.
/
Chapel
University Chapel is the oldest tradition at Baylor. For more than
160 years, Baylor students have gathered to worship together, to engage
important issues of our day, and to be inspired by speakers, artists,
academicians, and leaders from every vocation. 
/
General Physics I 
Principles and applications of mechanics, wave motion, sound, and heat
with emphasis on fundamental concepts, problem solving, notation, and
units. 
/
General Physics II
Principles and applications of electricity, magnetism, light, and
modern physics, with emphasis on fundamental concepts, problem solving,
notation, and units.
/
The Intellectual Tradition of the Ancient World
Close reading and discussion of foundational texts that establish the
parameters of morality, aesthetics, religion, and philosophy. 
/
Medieval Intellectual Traditions: Literature and Thought in Context
Interdisciplinary close reading and discussion of major literary texts
in relation to social, philosophical, and theological contexts of
historic development in Western cultures from the medieval to the early
modern period. 
/
Digital Logic Design
Boolean algebra, number systems and representations, analysis and
design of combinational and sequential logic circuits, minimization,
small- and medium-scale integrated devices, programmable logic, and
simulation of digital circuits.
/
Digital Logic Design Laboratory
Laboratory experience in digital circuit design using modern CAD tools
and programmable logic devices.
/
Microprocessor Systems 
Program development of microprocessor systems using assembly and C/C++
programming languages. Topics include processor architecture, data
representation, exceptions, I/O devices, memory management, and real-time
operating system principles. 
/
Electrical Circuit Theory
Linear circuit elements, sources, Kirchhoff's laws, mesh and nodal
analysis, Thevenin and Norton equivalent circuits, resistive network
analysis, sinusoidal steady-state analysis, AC and DC power, transient
analysis of RL, RC, and RLC circuits. 
/
Electrical Circuit Laboratory
Laboratory experience in electrical circuit design using discrete
components, standard bench equipment, and simulation in modern CAD
software.
/
Applied Electromagnetic Fields 
Vector description of the electric and magnetic properties of free
space (using the laws of Coulomb, Ampere, and Faraday). Maxwell's
electromagnetic field equations. Wave propagation in unbounded regions,
reflection and refraction of waves, waveguides, and transmission lines.
/
Embedded Systems Design 
Design and implementation of embedded computer systems using
microcontrollers, sensors and data conversion devices, actuators, visual
display devices, timers, and applications specific circuits. Software
design using microprocessor cross-development systems and real-time
operating system principles. 
/
Automatic Control Systems
Analysis and design of linear feedback control systems. Laplace
transforms, transfer functions, signal-flow graphs, electrical and
mechanical system modeling, state variables, system stability, timedomain response, root-locus method, Nyquist criterion, and compensator
design. Laboratory exercises to illustrate course concepts.
/
Digital Signal Processing
Discrete-time signals and systems, sampling theory, z-transforms,
spectral analysis, filter design, applications, and analysis and design
of discrete signal processing systems. 
/
Electronic Design
Analysis and design of analog and digital electronic circuits using
diodes, bipolar transistors, and field effect transistors. Design and
application of digital and analog circuits.
/
Electronic Design Laboratory
Laboratory experience in electronic design. 
/
Computer Organization 
Introduction to the organization and design of general-purpose digital
computers. Topics include instruction sets, CPU structures, hardwired and
microprogrammed controllers, memory, I/O systems, hardware description
languages and simulations.
/
Signals and Systems
Analysis of signals and systems in the time domain using differential
equations and convolution with the impulse response, and in the
frequency, domain using Fourier series, Fourier transforms, and Laplace
transforms with transfer functions. 
/
Image Formation and Processing
Introduction to image formation systems that provide images for
medical diagnostics, remote sensing, industrial inspection,
nondestructive materials evaluation and optical copying. Image
processing, including image enhancement, analysis, and compression.
Student specialization through assignments and project. 
/
Software Systems
Software engineering methods and tools. Topics include the development
lifecycle, requirements, specifications, design, implementation,
verification, validation, and maintenance, project management and
professional ethics.
/
Wireless Sensor Networks
Characterization and design of large-scale wireless sensor networks.
Topics include wireless channel utilization, media access protocols,
routing, energy management, synchronization, localization, data
aggregation, and security. Laboratory exercises using wireless sensor
devices, cross-development, and real-time operating systems. 
/
Bioinstrumentation 
Principles of biomedical instrumentation and their real-world
applications. Emphasis on understanding the basic design principles and
technologies used in bioelectrical, biomechanical, and clinical
instrumentation. 
/
Adaptive H.P.
Lifetime fitness activity class for students needing accommodation due
to injury or disability. Prior to registration, students must present a
medical statement from their physician outlining both the nature of the
disability and recommendations for a variety of exercises to be done in
class. 
/
Beginning Aerobics
Concepts of physical fitness and the development of movement routines
are fundamental to this course. Material covered includes a basic
understanding of fitness with various assignments relating to that
knowledge. 
/
Intermediate Aerobics 
This course incorporates all of the aspects of the beginner course. In
addition, it teaches complex dance/exercise routines to music and
provides a vigorous and complete workout for the more advanced student. 
/
Introduction to Computer Science I with Laboratory
Introduction to computers, problem solving and algorithm development.
Design, code, debug and document programs using techniques of good
programming style and C++ programming language. Laboratory experiments
and examples will be used to illustrate and reinforce concepts taught in
the lectures.
/
American Constitutional Development
An historical and institutional study of the background, content,
development, and interpretation of the United States Constitution. This
course is required for all bachelor's degrees. 
/
Engineering Economic Analysis
Designed to provide an economic foundation for engineering decisions.
The course stresses methods for making optimum choices among engineering
alternatives. Topics include cash flow and present value analysis; breakeven analysis; the impact of taxes and inflation on investment decisions;
methods for assigning costs; the treatment of risk in decision making;
and capital budgeting.
/
Probability and Statistics 
Introduction to the fundamentals of probability, random variables,
discrete and continuous probability distributions, expectations, sampling
distributions, topics of statistical inference such as confidence
intervals, tests of hypotheses, and regression. 
/