/
University Success in College
Experience and offers a global, comprehensive and
personalized approach to student success through
textbook, stimulating lectures, action research,
leadership development, library initiatives, and
service learning.
/
Calculus I with Laboratory.
Functions, limits, continuity, differentiation, limiting forms,
applications, properties of continuous functions,
analytic geometry and integration. The Laboratory
component is designed to reinforce the lecture
component with activities requiring the use of
technology in the form of computers with selective
software and graphing utilities.
/
Programming Fundamentals. 
This is the
first course in the computer science programming
sequence and is required of all computer science
majors. Course objectives include: introduction to
problem solving methods and algorithm development;
definition of language syntax and semantics of a
high level programming language; and developing
the ability to design, code, debug, document, and
successfully execute programs. Topics include
objects and classes, data types, applets and
graphics, decision statements, iteration, methods,
testing and debugging, arrays, sorting and searching,
inheritance, interfaces and polymorphism
/
History of Civilization I
A global survey
and study of the histories of major geographical
regions and populations between humans’ prehistory
beginnings and their civilizational, societal, and
cultural developments by the 15th century. Additionally,
the course provides and promotes student learning
outcomes that include content literacy about the
human historical experience and the honing of
specific skill sets–i.e., reading comprehension, critical,
and analytical thinking as well as effective written
and oral communication.
/
History of Civilization II
A global survey
and study of the histories of population groups,
their regional geographics and their civilizational
and cultural developments from the 15th and the
21st century. The course emphasizes both content
literacy and enrichment as well as the honing of skill
sets, especially students’ reading comprehension,
analytical and critical thinking, problem solving and
effective oral and written communication
/
Composition I
This course is the first
part of the two-semester freshman composition
program and is designed to give intensive study
and practice in writing themes. Emphasis is placed
on grammar and mechanics, the sentence, the
paragraph, and the essay
/
Composition II
with emphasis
on critical thinking and writing essays; writing the
research paper, business letters, and resumes.
/
Digital Logic
This is an introductory course to digital
design. Topics include number systems, binary
logic, Boolean algebra, truth tables, minimization
of Boolean functions. K-maps, and Flip-Flops,
Designs include combinational circuits, counters, and
sequential circuits.
/
General Physics I
Introduction to mechanics, wave motion, sound,
and heat
/
Calculus III with Laboratory
Infinite sequences and
series, differential calculus of functions of several
variables, multiple integrals. The laboratory
component is designed to reinforce the lecture
component with activities requiring the use of
technology in the form of computers with selective
software and graphing utilities.
/
General Physics II
A calculus-based continuation of PHY
211. Introduction to electricity, magnetism, optics,
and modern physics.
/
Object-Oriented Programming. 
Then the emphasis shiftsto object-oriented analysis and design. This course
covers I/O streams, exception handling, threads,
reflection, UML, object-oriented analysis and design,
object-oriented graphical user interfaces, design
patterns, and refactoring. 
/
Circuit Theory
This course introduces
concepts and basic laws in the analysis of AC and
DC linear electric circuits. Topics include mesh and
nodal analysis. Thevenin’s and Norton’s theorems,
superposition principle, transients in RLC circuits,
phasor notation, and frequency response.
/
Engineering Analysis
This course introduces the principles and applications of engineering mathematics, including linear
algebra, Fourier analysis, and complex variable theory
/
Computer Organization and Design. 
This course
introduces the basic computer organization,
which includes the Central Processing Unit (CPU)
architecture, memory organization, and input/output
subsystem. It covers instruction sets, addressing
modes, hardwired control, and microprogrammed
control. Projects emphasized simple CPU designs.
/
Discrete Structures for Computer Science.
Introduces the foundations of discrete mathematics
as they apply to computer science, focusing on
providing a solid theoretical foundation for further
work. Topics include basic logic, proof techniques, sets,
bags, ordered structures, graphs, trees, facts and
properties of functions, and construction techniques
/
Electronics Lab
This laboratory course
includes experiments that validate the concepts
covered in CPE 330–Electronics. Experiments
include diode circuits, BJT characteristics, FET
characteristics, and MOSFET circuits.
/
Ordinary Differential Equations. 
Introduction to differential
equations, first-order differential equations, higherorder differential equations, series solutions of linear
equations, the Laplace transform and systems of
linear first-order differential equations.
/
Engineering Mechanics I.
Calculus-based statics of particles and rigid
bodies, equilibrium; distributed forces; centroids;
structures, trusses, frame, machines; forces in beams
and cables; friction; moments of inertia, real life examples
for engineering applications and systems approach
/
Embedded Microprocessor Systems.
This course covers the architecture, operation,
and applications of microprocessors. Topics include
microprocessor programming, address decoding,
interface to memory, interfacing to parallel and serial
input/output, interrupts, and direct memory access.
Course project is to design, build, and program a
simple microprocessor-based system.
/
Synthesis with Hardware Descriptive Language
This course provides an overview of digital
logic design. It covers modeling and simulation of
basic digital systems using a hardware descriptive
language. Topics include behavioral, data flow, and
structural modeling
/
General Chemistry I.
A study of the types and properties of
matter, measurement, qualitative and quantitative
descriptions of chemical reactions, atomic structure,
bonding and thermochemistry.
/
Probability and Statistics for Engineers
Introduction to concepts of probability and statistics required to
solve problems in various disciplines; mathematical
basis for probability and statistics includes axioms of
probability, continuous sampling distributions, and
discrete probability, hypothesis testing, confidence
intervals, probability estimations for risk assessment,
data processing and statistical inference, statistical
techniques of data analysis, simple and multiple
regression model development; stochastic processes,
emphasis is on the application of probability, statistics
and reliability to rational decision making, data analysis
and model estimation in engineering context.
/
Engineering Economy
Introduction to economic
principles, application of economic principles to
multidisciplinary engineering problems; calculation
of capitalized costs, present worth, prospective rates
of return, and annual costs, economy of equipment
replacement, market forces and firm analysis; case
studies and group project.
/
Data Structures and Algorithms. 
The concepts of data abstraction and
data structures are developed. For the basic data
structures of linked lists, stacks, queues, hash
tables, graphs, and trees, associated algorithms are
described and analyzed. The course also treats 
JACKSON STATE UNIVERSITY | 260
recursion, sorting, fundamentals of software engineering, 
/
Signals and Systems.
This course introduces theoretical
analysis of signals and systems. Topics include timedomain response and convolution, Fourier transform,
frequency-domain response using Fourier series,
and Laplace transform, discrete Fourier series and
transform, sampling, z-transform, and relationships
between time and frequency descriptions
/
Computer Architecture
This course covers computer architecture
design issues. Topics include organization of CPU,
processor systems design, computer arithmetic,
memory system organization and architecture,
interfacing and communication, performance, and
multiprocessing.
/
Operating Systems. 
This course
introduces the major concepts of process
communication and synchronization, protection,
performance measurement, and causes and
evaluations of the problems associated with mutual
exclusions and process synchronization among
concurrent processes. This course introduces and
analyzes various operating systems in terms of
processor management, memory management,
device management, information management, and
distributed systems management
/
Senior Design Project I
Senior Design Project I
/
Philosophy Option
Philosophy Option
/
Fine Arts Option
Fine Arts Option
/
Senior Design Project II 
Senior Design Project II 
/
Digital VLSI Design.
This course introduces principles
of the design and layout of Very Large Scale Integrated
(VLSI) circuits with concentrations on the Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS)
technology. Topics include MOS transistor theory
and CMOS technology, characterization and
performance estimation of CMOS gates. Course
projects involve layout designs and simulations
using computer-aided design tools.
/
Digital System Testing and Design for Testability
This course introduces fundamental techniques for
detecting defects in VLSI circuits. Topics include
fault models, fault detection, and schemes for
designing systems to be easily testable and with
self-test capability.
/
Communication Systems. 
This course introduces students to analog and digital modulation
techniques. Topics include random processes, power
special density, effects of nosie on, and bandwidth
requirements of, different modulation schemes
/
Computer Networks
This course introduces students to network
protocols and network architectures. Topics
include characteristics and principles related to
Wide Area Networ A(WAN), and network devices
and their relationship with network protocols
and architectures. It also provides methods for
characterizing and analyzing communications
systems performance.
/
Digital Signal Processing.
This course introduces the theory and
algorithms for processing deterministic and
stochastic signals. Topics include discrete signals,
linear filtering; Fast Fourier Transform, nonlinear
filtering, spectrum estimation, linear prediction,
adaptive filtering, and array signal processing.
/
